 
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS
The spells are presented in alphabetical order.

_

ACID SPLASH

Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You create an acidic bubble at a point within range,
where it explodes in a 5-foot-radius Sphere. Each
creature in that Sphere must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take 1d6 Acid damage.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

AID

Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a strip of white cloth)

Duration: 8 hours

Choose up to three creatures within range. Each
target's Hit Point maximum and current Hit Points
increase by 5 for the duration.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Each target's Hit
Points increase by 5 for each spell slot level above 2.

ALARM
Level 1 Abjuration (Ranger, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bell and silver wire)
Duration: 8 hours

You set an alarm against intrusion. Choose a door,

a window, or an area within range that is no larger
than a 20-foot Cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm
alerts you whenever a creature touches or enters
the warded area. When you cast the spell, you can
designate creatures that won't set off the alarm. You
also choose whether the alarm is audible or mental:

Audible Alarm. The alarm produces the sound of
a handbell for 10 seconds within 60 feet of the
warded area.

Mental Alarm. You are alerted by a mental ping
if you are within | mile of the warded area. This
ping awakens you if you're asleep.

_————

ALTER SELF

Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You alter your physical form. Choose one of the
following options. Its effects last for the duration,
during which you can take a Magic action to replace
the option you chose with a different one.

Aquatic Adaptation. You sprout gills and grow
webs between your fingers. You can breathe under-
water and gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.

Change Appearance. You alter your appearance.
You decide what you look like, including your
height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice,
hair length, coloration, and other distinguishing
characteristics. You can make yourself appear as
a member of another species, though none of your
statistics change. You can’t appear as a creature of a
different size, and your basic shape stays the same;
if you're bipedal, you can't use this spell to become
quadrupedal, for instance. For the duration, you can
take a Magic action to change your appearance in
this way again.

Natural Weapons. You grow claws (Slashing),
fangs (Piercing), horns (Piercing), or hooves (Blud-
geoning). When you use your Unarmed Strike to
deal damage with that new growth, it deals 1d6
damage of the type in parentheses instead of deal-
ing the normal damage for your Unarmed Strike,
and you use your spellcasting ability modifier for
the attack and damage rolls rather than using
Strength.

ANIMAL FRIENDSHIP
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours

Target a Beast that you can see within range. The
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
have the Charmed condition for the duration. If you
or one of your allies deals damage to the target, the
spells ends.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional Beast for each spell slot level above 1.


ANIMAL MESSENGER
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours

A Tiny Beast of your choice that you can see within
range must succeed on a Charisma saving throw, or
it attempts to deliver a message for you (if the tar-
get's Challenge Rating isn't 0, it automatically suc-
ceeds). You specify a location you have visited and a
recipient who matches a general description, such as
“a person dressed in the uniform of the town guard"
or “a red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat.” You
also communicate a message of up to twenty-five
words. The Beast travels for the duration toward
the specified location, covering about 25 miles per
24 hours or 50 miles if the Beast can fly.

When the Beast arrives, it delivers your message
to the creature that you described, mimicking your
communication, If the Beast doesn't reach its desti-
nation before the spell ends, the message is lost, and
the Beast returns to where you cast the spell.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell's dura-
tion increases by 48 hours for each spell slot level
above 2.

ANIMAL SHAPES
Level 8 Transmutation (Druid)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hours

Choose any number of willing creatures that you
can see within range. Each target shape-shifts into
a Large or smaller Beast of your choice that has a
Challenge Rating of 4 or lower. You can choose a
different form for each target. On later turns, you
can take a Magic action to transform the targets
again.

A target's game statistics are replaced by the
chosen Beast's statistics, but the target retains its
creature type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; alignment;
ability to communicate; and Intelligence, Wisdom,
and Charisma scores. The target's actions are lim-
ited by the Beast form's anatomy, and it can't cast
spells. The target's equipment melds into the new
form, and the target can’t use any of that equipment
while in that form.

The target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Beast form's Hit Points. The
transformation lasts for the duration for each tar-
get, until the target has no Temporary Hit Points, or
until the target leaves the form as a Bonus Action.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

es

ANIMATE DEAD
Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood, a piece of
flesh, and a pinch of bone dust)

Duration: Instantaneous

Choose a pile of bones or a corpse of a Medium or
Small Humanoid within range. The target becomes
an Undead creature: a Skeleton if you chose bones
or a Zombie if you chose a corpse (see appendix B
for the stat blocks).

On each of your turns, you can take a Bonus
Action to mentally command any creature you
made with this spell if the creature is within 60
feet of you (if you control multiple creatures, you
can command any of them at the same time, issu-
ing the same command to each one). You decide
what action the creature will take and where it will
move on its next turn, or you can issue a general
command, such as to guard a chamber or corridor.
If you issue no commands, the creature takes the
Dodge action and moves only to avoid harm. Once
given an order, the creature continues to follow it
until its task is complete.

The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you've
given it. To maintain control of the creature for an-
other 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the crea-
ture again before the current 24-hour period ends.
This use of the spell reasserts your control over up
to four creatures you have animated with this spell
rather than animating a new creature.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You animate or
reassert control over two additional Undead crea-
tures for each spell slot level above 3. Each of the
creatures must come from a different corpse or pile
of bones.

ANIMATE OBJECTS
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Objects animate at your command. Choose a num-
ber of nonmagical objects within range that aren't
being worn or carried, aren't fixed to a surface, and
aren't Gargantuan. The maximum number of ob-
jects is equal to your spellcasting ability modifier;
for this number, a Medium or smaller target counts
as one object, a Large target counts as two, anda
Huge target counts as three.

  

A BRatieR AFFECTED BY THE
Spert ANIMATE Osvecrs

 

“ANIMATED ANIMATED OBJECT |

| Dee Huge or Smaller Construct, Unaligned
| AC 15
|

| HP 10 (Medium or smaller), 20 (Large), 40 (Huge)

| Speed 30 ft.

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
| Str 16 +3 +3 Dex 10 +0 +0 Conl0 +0 +0
lint 3 -4 -4 Wis 3 -4 -4 CHal -5 -5

) Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Exhaustion,
| Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned

| Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Passive Perception 6
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)

ACTIONS

modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: Force damage equal to 1d4 + 3
(Medium or smaller), 2d6 + 3 + your spellcasting ability
modifier (Large), or 2d12 + 3 + your spellcasting ability
modifier  (tiuge:

228 ee

 

Se

See

—

Each target animates, sprouts legs, and becomes
a Construct that uses the Animated Object stat
block; this creature is under your control until the
spell ends or until it is reduced to O Hit Points. Each
creature you make with this spell is an ally to you
and your allies. In combat, it shares your Initiative
count and takes its turn immediately after yours.

Until the spet! ends, you can take a Bonus Action
to mentally command any creature you made with

| Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack

 

4
"
;
1
i

this spell if the creature is within 500 feet of you (if
you control multiple creatures, you can command
any of them at the same time, issuing the same
command to each one). If you issue no commands,
the creature takes the Dodge action and moves only
to avoid harm. When the creature drops to O Hit
Points, it reverts to its object form, and any remain-
ing damage carries over to that form.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The creature's
Slam damage increases by 1d4 (Medium or smaller),

1d6 (Large), or 1d12 (Huge) for each spell slot level
above 5.

ANTILIFE SHELL
Level 5 Abjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

An aura extends from you in a 10-foot Emanation
for the duration. The aura prevents creatures other
than Constructs and Undead from passing or reach-
ing through it. An affected creature can cast spells
or make attacks with Ranged or Reach weapons
through the barrier.

If you move so that an affected creature is forced
to pass through the barrier, the spell ends.

ANTIMAGIC FIELD
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

An aura of antimagic surrounds you in 10-foot Em-
anation. No one can cast spells, take Magic actions,
or create other magical effects inside the aura, and
those things can't target or otherwise affect any-
thing inside it. Magical properties of magic items
don't work inside the aura or on anything inside it.

Areas of effect created by spells or other magic
can't extend into the aura, and no one can teleport
into or out of it or use planar travel there. Portals
close temporarily while in the aura.

Ongoing spells, except those cast by an Artifact or
a deity, are suppressed in the area. While an effect
is suppressed, it doesn't function, but the time it
spends suppressed counts against its duration.

Dispel Magic has no effect on the aura, and the au-
ras created by different Antimagic Field spells don't
nullify each other.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 24
a

ANTIPATHY/SYMPATHY
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a mix of vinegar and honey)
Duration: 10 days

As you cast the spell, choose whether it creates an-
tipathy or sympathy, and target one creature or ob-
ject that is Huge or smaller. Then specify a kind of
creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires.
A creature of the chosen kind makes a Wisdom
saving throw when it comes within 120 feet of the
target. Your choice of antipathy or sympathy deter-
mines what happens to a creature when it fails that
save:

Antipathy. The creature has the Frightened condi-
tion. The Frightened creature must use its move-
ment on its turns to get as far away as possible
from the target, moving by the safest route.

Sympathy. The creature has the Charmed condi-
tion. The Charmed creature must use its move-
ment on its turns to get as close as possible to the
target, moving by the safest route. If the creature
is within 5 feet of the target, the creature can't
willingly move away. If the target damages the
Charmed creature, that creature can make a Wis-
dom saving throw to end the effect, as described
below.

Ending the Effect. If the Frightened or Charmed
creature ends its turn more than 120 feet away
from the target, the creature makes a Wisdom sav-
ing throw. On a successful save, the creature is no
longer affected by the target. A creature that suc-
cessfully saves against this effect is immune to it for
1 minute, after which it can be affected again.

ARCANE EYE

Level 4 Divination (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of bat fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You create an Invisible, invulnerable eye within
range that hovers for the duration. You mentally
receive visual information from the eye, which can
see in every direction. It also has Darkvision with a
range of 30 feet.

As a Bonus Action, you can move the eye up to 30
feet in any direction. A solid barrier blocks the eye's
movement, but the eye can pass through an opening

as small as 1 inch in diameter.

 

ARCANE GATE

Level 6 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 500 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create linked teleportation portals. Choose two
Large, unoccupied spaces on the ground that you
can see, one space within range and the other one
within 10 feet of you. A circular portal opens in
each of those spaces and remains for the duration.

The portals are two-dimensional glowing rings
filled with mist that blocks sight. They hover inches
from the ground and are perpendicular to it.

A portal is open on only one side (you choose
which). Anything entering the open side of a portal
exits from the open side of the other portal as if the
two were adjacent to each other. As a Bonus Action,
you can change the facing of the open sides.

ARCANE LOCK
Level 2 Abjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth 254+ GP, which
the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

You touch a closed door, window, gate, container,
or hatch and magically lock it for the duration. This
lock can't be unlocked by any nonmagical means.
You and any creatures you designate when you cast
the spell can open and close the object despite the
lock. You can also set a password that, when spoken
within 5 feet of the object, unlocks it for 1 minute.

ARCANE VIGOR
Level 2 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self

Component: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You tap into your life force to heal yourself. Roll one
or two of your unexpended Hit Point Dice, and re-
gain a number of Hit Points equal to the roll’s total
plus your spellcasting ability modifier. Those dice
are then expended.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The number of un-
expended Hit Dice you can roli inereases by one for
each spell slot level above 2.

 

EXT Saha aes el a IFADAR TO BATTLE
Jolt aa tel. age me  aor .

* ent

 

 

 

 

 

Fae
=

 

ARMOR OF AGATHYS
Level 1 Abjuration (Warlock)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a shard of blue glass)
Duration: 1 hour

Protective magical frost surrounds you. You gain 5
Temporary Hit Points. If a creature hits you witha
melee attack roll before the spell ends, the creature
takes 5 Cold damage. The spell ends early if you
have no Temporary Hit Points.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Temporary Hit
Points and the Cold damage both increase by 5 for
each spell slot level above 1.

ARMS OF HADAR
Level 1 Conjuration (Warlock)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Invoking Hadar, you cause tendrils to erupt from
yourself, Each creature in a 10-foot Emanation orig-
inating from you makes a Strength saving throw.
Ona failed suve, a target takes 2d6 Necrotic damage

_— . i i

 

and can't take Reactions until the start of its next
turn. On a successful save, a target takes half as
much damage only.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

ASTRAL PROJECTION
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S, M (for each of the spell’s targets,
one jacinth worth 1,000+ GP and one silver bar
worth 100+ GP, all of which the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

You and up to eight willing creatures within range
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the
spell ends instantly if you are already on that plane).
Each target's body is left behind in a state of sus-
pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition,
doesn’t need food or air, and doesn't age.

A target's astral form resembles its body in almost
every way, replicating its game statistics and pos-
sessions. The principal difference is the addition of
a silvery cord that trails from between the shoulder
blades of the astral form. The cord fades from view
after 1 foot. If the cord is cut—which happens only
when an effect states that it does so—the target’s ie
body and astral form both die. | :

  

A target's astral form can travel through the As-
tral Plane. The moment an astral form leaves that
plane, the target's body and possessions travel along
the silver cord, causing the target to re-enter its
body on the new plane.

Any damage or other effects that apply to an as-
tral form have no effect on the target's body and
vice versa. If a target's body or astral form drops to
O Hit Points, the spell ends for that target. The spell
ends for all the targets if you take a Magic action to
dismiss it.

When the spell ends for a target who isn't dead,
the target reappears in its body and exits the state
of suspended animation.

AUGURY
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones,
cards, or other divinatory tokens worth 25+ GP)

Duration: Instantaneous

You receive an omen from an otherworldly entity
about the results of a course of action that you
plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM
chooses the omen from the Omens table.

OMENS
Omen For Results That Will Be ...
Weal Good
Woe Bad
Wealandwoe Good and bad
Indifference Neither good nor bad

The spell doesn’t account for circumstances, such as
other spells, that might change the results.

If you cast the spell more than once before finish-
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get
no answer.

~——- —— - je

AURA OF LIFE
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
| Casting Time: Action
% Range: Self
Components: V
_ Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

_ Anaura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation

   
  
   

AURA OF PURITY

Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your
allies have Resistance to Poison damage and Advan-
tage on saving throws to avoid or end effects that
include the Blinded, Charmed, Deafened, Fright-
ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition.

AURA OF VITALITY

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation
for the duration. When you create the aura and at
the start of each of your turns while it persists, you
can restore 2d6 Hit Points to one creature in it.

AWAKEN
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)

Casting Time: 8 hours

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (an agate worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

You spend the casting time tracing magical path-
ways within a precious gemstone, and then touch
the target. The target must be either a Beast or
Plant creature with an Intelligence of 3 or less or a
natural plant that isn't a creature. The target gains
an Intelligence of 10 and the ability to speak one
language you know. If the target is a natural plant,
it becomes a Plant creature and gains the ability
to move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so
forth, and it gains senses similar to a human's. The
DM chooses statistics appropriate for the awak-
ened Plant, such as the statistics for the Awakened
Shrub or Awakened Tree in the Monster Manual.
The awakened target has the Charmed condition
for 30 days or until you or your allies deal damage
to it. When that condition ends, the awakened crea-
ture chooses its attitude toward you.

 
  
 
    
 

BANE
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Up to three creatures of your choice that you can
see within range must each make a Charisma saving
throw. Whenever a target that fails this save makes
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell
ends, the target must subtract 1d4 from the attack
roll or save.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

BANISHING SMITE
Level 5 Conjuration (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

The target hit by the attack roll takes an extra 5d10
Force damage from the attack. If the attack reduces
the target to SO Hit Points or fewer, the target must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans-
ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration.
While there, the target has the Incapacitated con-
dition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in
the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if
that space is occupied.

BANISHMENT
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

One creature that you can see within range must
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans-
ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration.
While there, the target has the Incapacitated con-
dition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in
the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if
that space is occupied.

If the target is an Aberration, a Celestial, an Ele-
mental, a Fey, or a Fiend, the target doesn't return
if the spell lasts for 1 minute. The target is instead

x rt edtoa ee location on a plane (DM's
KS associated with its creature type.
g Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
a al creature for each spell slot level above 4.
—
Ba KSKIN
3 Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch

Component: V, S, M (a handful of bark)
Duration: 7 hour

You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends,
the target's skin assumes a bark-like appearance,
and the target has an Armor Class of 17 if its AC is
lower than that.

BEACON OF Hope

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Choose any number of creatures within range. For
the duration, each target has Advantage on Wis-
dom saving throws and Death Saving Throws and
regains the maximum number of Hit Points possible
from any healing.

BEAST SENSE

Level 2 Divination (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Touch

Components: S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You touch a willing Beast. For the duration, you can
perceive through the Beast's senses as well as your
own. When perceiving through the Beast's senses,
you benefit from any special senses it has.

BEFUDDLEMENT

Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a key ring with no keys)
Duration: Instantaneous

You blast the mind of a creature that you can see
within range. The target makes an Intelligence sav-
ing throw.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

  

 

MOST PeC Teel) 2 525 I) 0. yes) 2 ue
felt SAMMI om Col d=) = hi Daa teharo Es

TO HIS RESEARCH.

On a failed save, the target takes 10d12 Psychic
damage and can't cast spells or take the Magic ac-
tion. At the end of every 30 days, the target repeats
the save, ending the effect on a success. The effect
can also be ended by the Greater Restoration, Heal, or
Wish spell.

On a successful save, the target takes half as much
damage only.

BEstTow CURSE
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You touch a creature, which must succeed ona
Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the du-
ration. Until the curse ends, the target suffers one of
the following effects of your choice:

- Choose one ability. The target has Disadvantage
on ability checks and saving throws made with
that ability.

- The target has Disadvantage on attack rolls

"against you.

- In combat, the target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw at the start of each of its turns or be
forced to take the Dodge action on that turn.

- If you deal damage to the target with an attack
roll or a spell, the target takes an extra 1d8 Ne-
crotic damage.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. |f you cast this
spell using a level 4 spell slot, you can maintain
Concentration on it for up to 10 minutes. If you use
a level 5+ spell slot, the spell doesn’t require Con-
centration, and the duration becomes 8 hours (level
5-6 slot) or 24 hours (level 7-8 slot). If you use a
level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until dispelled.

BicBy’s HAND
Level 5 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (an eggshell and a glove)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You create a Large hand of shimimering magical en-
ergy in an unoccupied space thal +you can see within
range. The hand lasts for the duration, and it moves
at your command, mimicking the sovements of
your own hand.

 

BRAN VESTA

The hand = an object that has AC 20 and Hit
Points equai to your Hit Point maximum. If it drops
to 0 Hit Points, the spell ends. The hand doesn't oc-
cupy its space.

When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action on
your later turns, you can move the hand up to 60
feet and then cause one of the following effects:

Clenched Fist. The hand strikes a target within 5
feet of it. Make a melee spell attack. On a hit, the
target takes 5d8 Force damage.

Forceful Hand. The hand attempts to push a Huge
or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The target
must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or the
hand pushes the target up to S feet plus a number
of feet equal to five times your spellcasting ability
modifier. The hand moves with the target, remain-
ing within 5 feet of it.

Grasping Hand. The hand attempts to grapple a
Huge or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw,
or the target has the Grappled condition, with an
escape DC equal to your spell save DC. While the
hand grapples the target, you can take a Bonus
Action to cause the hand to crush it, dealing Blud-
geoning damage to the target equal to 4d6 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier.

Interposing Hand. The hand grants you Half Cover
against attacks and other effects that originate
from its space or that pass through it. In addi-
tion, its space counts as Difficult Terrain for your
enemies.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of the
Clenched Fist increases by 2d8 and the damage of
the Grasping Hand increases by 2d6 for each spell
slot level above 5.

BLADE BARRIER
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create a wall of whirling blades made of magi-
cal energy. The wall appears within range and lasts
for the duration. You make a straight wall up to 100
feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a ringed
wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 5
feet thick. The wall provides Three-Quarters Cover,
and its space is Difficult Terrain.

BLADE WARD

Abjuration Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Whenever a creature makes an attack roll against
you before the spell ends, the attacker subtracts 1d4
from the attack roll,

BLEss

Level 1 Enchantment (Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a Holy Symbol worth 5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You bless up to three creatures within range.
Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a saving
throw before the spell ends, the target adds 1d4 to
the attack roll or save.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

BLIGHT

Level 4 Necromancy (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

A creature that you can see within range makes or
a Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on
a successful one. A Plant creature automatically
fails the save.

Alternatively, target a nonmagical plant that isn’t
a creature, such as a tree or shrub. It doesn't makea
save; it simply withers and dies.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4.

 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
       

o————_—_——

BLINDING SMITE
Level 3 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, |
ately after hitting a creat
an Unarmed Strike
ange a

Blinded condition until the spell ends. At the end of
each of its turns, the Blinded target makes a Consti-
tution saving throw, ending the spell on itself on a
success.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The extra damage
increases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3.

BLINDNESS/ DEAFNESS

Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V

Duration: 1 minute

One creature that you can see within range must
succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it has
the Blinded or Deafened condition (your choice)
for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the
target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on
a success,

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.

BLINK

Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: 1 minute

Roll 1d6 at the end of each of your turns for the du-
ration. On a roll of 4—6, you vanish from your cur-
rent plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal
Plane (the spell ends instantly if you are already on
that plane). While on the Ethereal Plane, you can
perceive the plane you left, which is cast in shades
of gray, but you can’t see anything there more than
60 feet away. You can affect and be affected only
by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane, and crea-
tures on the other plane can't perceive you unless
they have a special ability that lets them perceive
things on the Ethereal Plane.

You return to the other plane at the start of your
next turn and when the spell ends if you are on the
Ethereal Plane. You return to an unoccupied space
of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the
space you left. If no unoccupied space is available
within that range, you appear in the nearest unoc-
cupied space.

Ba. CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS enh,

BLuR

Level 2 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Your body becomes blurred. For the duration, any
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against
you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it per-
ceives you with Blindsight or Truesight.

BURNING HANDS

Level I Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

A thin sheet of flames shoots forth from you. Each
creature in a 15-foot Cone makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 3d6 Fire damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.

Flammable objects in the Cone that aren't being
worn or carried start burning.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

CALL LIGHTNING

Level 3 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

A storm cloud appears at a point within range that
you can see above yourself. It takes the shape of a
Cylinder that is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius.

When you cast the spell, choose a point you can
see under the cloud. A lightning bolt shoots from
the cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet
of that point makes a Dexterity saving throw, tak-
ing 3d10 Lightning damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one.

Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action
to call down lightning in that way again, targeting
the same point or a different one.

If you're outdoors in a storm when you cast this
spell, the spell gives you control over that storm in-
stead of creating a new one. Under such conditions,
the spell’s damage increases by idi().

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. \':c damage in-
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 3.

a ‘the target has the Charn

  
   
   
 

CALM EMOTIONS

Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Each Humanoid in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered
ona point you choose within range must succeed

on a Charisma saving throw or be affected by one of
the following effects (choose for each creature):

. The creature has Immunity to the Charmed and
Frightened conditions until the spell ends. If the
creature was already Charmed or Frightened,
those conditions are suppressed for the duration.

. The creature becomes Indifferent about crea-
tures of your choice that it's Hostile toward. This
indifference ends if the target takes damage or
witnesses its allies taking damage. When the spell
ends, the creature's attitude returns to normal.

CHAIN LIGHTNING

Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (three silver pins)
Duration: Instantaneous

You launch a lightning bolt toward a target you can
see within range. Three bolts then leap from that
target to as many as three other targets of your
choice, each of which must be within 30 feet of the
first target. A target can be a creature or an object
and can be targeted by only one of the bolts.

Each target makes a Dexterity saving throw, tak-
ing 10d8 Lightning damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. One additional bolt
leaps from the first target to another target for each
spell slot level above 6.

CHARM MONSTER

Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: } hour

One creature you can see within range makes a
Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advan
if you or your allies are re it. Ona fai
ed c Lf O nt CG \
*

s or until you or your allies damage it. The
d creature is Friendly to you. When the
| s, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
ing a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.

— rate

CHARM PERSON

Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: 1 hour

One Humanoid you can see within range makes a

Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advantage

if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save,

the target has the Charmed condition until the

spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The

Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the

spell ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one

additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

CHILL ToucH

Necromancy Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Channeling the chill of the grave, make a melee

spell attack against a target within reach. On a hit,

the target takes 1d10 Necrotic damage, and it can't

regain Hit Points until the end of your next turn. :
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10

when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17

(4d10).

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
  

—_— ee
ad
~

CHROMATIC ORB
Level I Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 50+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous -

You hurl an orb of energy at a target within r
Choose Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or

der for the type of | orb you you create, :

StS

 

 
 

 

roll against the new target, and make a new damage
roll. The orb can’t leap again unless you cast the
spell with a level 2+ spell slot.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1. The
orb can leap a maximum number of times equal to
the level of the slot expended, and a creature can be
targeted only once by each casting of this spell.

CIRCLE OF DEATH
Level 6 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (the powder of a crushed black
pearl worth 500+ GP)

Duration: Instantaneous

Negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot-radius
Sphere from a point you choose within range. Each
creature in that area makes a Constitution saving
throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 6.

 

-_
Lf 4 yr ye So) fe a ta Rael aar a ele tel Te)
A oa WITH a ENERGY OF Vie
> LC) Lee

wae eee

~

CIRCLE OF POWER
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your al-
lies have Advantage on saving throws against spells
and other magical effects. When an affected crea-
ture makes a saving throw against a spell or magical
effect that allows a save to take only half damage, it
takes no damage if it succeeds on the save.

CLAIRVOYANCE
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: | mile

Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 100+ GP, either a
jeweled horn for hearing or a gicss eye for seeing)

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 :ninutes

You create an Invisible sensor +. sin range ina
location familiar to you (a pi: vai have visited

5
,
;
:
i

 

—

or seen before) or in an obvious location that is
unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a
corner, or in a grove of trees). The intangible, invul-
nerable sensor remains in place for the duration.

When you cast the spell, choose seeing or hearing.
You can use the chosen sense through the sensor as
if you were in its space. As a Bonus Action, you can
switch between seeing and hearing.

Acreature that sees the sensor (such as a creature
benefiting from See Invisibility or Truesight) sees a
juminous orb about the size of your fist.

CLONE

Level 8 Necromancy (Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes, and a sealable vessel
worth 2,000+ GP that is large enough to hold the
creature being cloned)

Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a creature or at least | cubic inch of its
flesh. An inert duplicate of that creature forms
inside the vessel used in the spell’s casting and fin-
ishes growing after 120 days; you choose whether
the finished clone is the same age as the creature or
younger. The clone remains inert and endures indef-
initely while its vessel remains undisturbed.

If the original creature dies after the clone fin-
ishes forming, the creature's soul transfers to the
clone if the soul is free and willing to return. The
clone is physically identical to the original and has
the same personality, memories, and abilities, but
none of the original's equipment. The creature's
original remains, if any, become inert and can't be
revived, since the creature's soul is elsewhere.

CLOUDKILL
Level 5 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow-green
fog centered on a point within range. The fog lasts
for the duration or until strong wind (such as the
one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it, ending the
spell. Its area is Heavily Obscured.

Each creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution
saving throw, i king 5d8 Poison damage on a failed
save or half as rvuch damage on a successful one. A
creature mus: “!so make this save when the Sphere
moves into its «..ace and when it enters the Sphere

#

es '* + oa]
ee CHAPTER7| SPELLS

or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save
only once per turn.

The Sphere moves 10 feet away from you at the
start of each of your turns.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.

CLoup oF Daccers

Level 2 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a sliver of glass)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You conjure spinning daggers in a 5-foot Cube
centered on a point within range. Each creature in
that area takes 4d4 Slashing damage. A creature
also takes this damage if it enters the Cube or ends
its turn there or if the Cube moves into its space. A
creature takes this damage only once per turn.

On your later turns, you can take a Magic action
to teleport the Cube up to 30 feet.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 2.

COoLor Spray

Level I Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of colorful sand)
Duration: Instantaneous

You launch a dazzling array of flashing, colorful
light. Each creature in a 15-foot Cone originating
from you must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or have the Blinded condition until the end of
your next turn.

COMMAND
Level I Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

You speak a one-word command to a creature you
can see within range. The target must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its
next turn. Choose the command from these options:

Approach. The target moves toward you by the
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it
moves within 5 feet of you.

Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and
then ends its turn.

 

Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from
you by the fastest available means.

Grovel. The target has the Prone condition and
then ends its turn.

Halt. On its turn, the target doesn’t move and takes
no action or Bonus Action.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can affect one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

COMMUNE

Level 5 Divination (Cleric)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (incense)
Duration: 1 minute

You contact a deity or a divine proxy and ask up
to three questions that can be answered with yes
or no. You must ask your questions before the
spell ends. You receive a correct answer for each
question.

Divine beings aren't necessarily omniscient, so
you might receive “unclear” as an answer if a ques-
tion pertains to information that lies beyond the
deity’s knowledge. In a case where a one-word an-
swer could be misleading or contrary to the deity’s
interests, the DM might offer a short phrase as an
answer instead.

If you cast the spell more than once before finish-
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get
no answer.

COMMUNE WITH NATURE
Level 5 Divination (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You commune with nature spirits and gain knowl-
edge of the surrounding area. In the outdoors, the
spell gives you knowledge of the area within 3 miles
of you. In caves and other natural underground
settings, the radius is limited to 300 feet. The spell
doesn't function where nature has been replaced by
construction, such as in castles and settlements.

Choose three of the following facts; you learn
those facts as they pertain to the spell’s area:

» Locations of settlements

- Locations of portals to other planes of existence

- Location of one Challenge Rating 10+ creature
(DM's choice) that is a Celestial, an Elemental, a
Fey, a Fiend, or an Undead

aga) CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS
ae aes a eee — a

- The most prevalent kind of plant, minevat, or
Beast (you choose which to learn)
+ Locations of bodies of water

For example, you could determine the location ofa
powerful monster in the area, the locations of bod-
ies of water, and the locations of any towns.

COMPELLED DUEL
Level 1 Enchantment (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You try to compel a creature into a duel. One crea-
ture that you can see within range makes a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, the target has Disad-
vantage on attack rolls against creatures other than
you, and it can't willingly move to a space that is
more than 30 feet away from you.

The spell ends if you make an attack roll against a
creature other than the target, if you cast a spell on
an enemy other than the target, if an ally of yours
damages the target, or if you end your turn more
than 30 feet away from the target.

COMPREHEND LANGUAGES
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of soot and salt)
Duration: 1 hour

For the duration, you understand the literal mean-
ing of any language that you hear or see signed. You
also understand any written language that you see,
but you must be touching the surface on which the
words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read
one page of text. This spell doesn’t decode symbols
or secret messages.

COMPULSION
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Each creature of your choice that you can see
within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or have the Charmed condition until the spell
ends.

BANCY* ValCAt

 

For the duration, you can take a Bonus Action to
designate a direction that is horizontal to you. Each
Charmed target must use as much of its movement
as possible to move in that direction on its next
turn, taking the safest route. After moving in this
way, a target repeats the save, ending the spell on
itself on a success.

CONE OF COLD
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a small crystal or glass cone)
Duration: Instantaneous

You unleash a blast of cold air. Each creature ina
60-foot Cone originating from you makes a Consti-
tution saving throw, taking 8d8 Cold damage ona
failed save or half as much damage on a successful
one. A creature killed by this spell becomes a frozen
statue until it thaws.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by id& for each spell slot level above 5.

ra
ra (OA Nira\-ton © seer aaa ye ae
- MONSTERS WITH CONE OF COLD.
a

™

CONFUSION

Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (three nut shells)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Each creature in a 10-foot-radius Sphere centered
on a point you choose within range must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw, or that target can’t take
Bonus Actions or Reactions and must roll 1d10 at
the start of each of its turns to determine its behav-
ior for that turn, consulting the table below.

1d10 Behavior for the Turn
1 The target doesn’t take an action, and it uses

all its movement to move. Roll 1d4 for the di-
rection: 1, north; 2, east; 3, south; or 4, west.

2-6 The target doesn’t move or take actions.

7-8 The target doesn’t move, and it takes the At-
tack action to make one melee attack against
a random creature within reach. If none are
within reach, the target takes no action. -

9-10 The target chooses its behavior. Lag

 

At the end of each of its turns, an affected tar-
get repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a

success.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Sphere’s radius
increases by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 4.

CONJURE ANIMALS

Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You conjure nature spirits that appear as a Large
pack of spectral, intangible animals in an unoccu-
pied space you can see within range. The pack lasts
for the duration, and you choose the spirits’ animal
form, such as wolves, serpents, or birds.

You have Advantage on Strength saving throws
while you're within 5 feet of the pack, and when you
move on your turn, you can also move the pack up
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.

Whenever the pack moves within 10 feet of a
creature you can see and whenever a creature you
can see enters a space within 10 feet of the pack or
ends its turn there, you can force that creature to
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 3d10 Slashing damage. A creature
makes this save only once per turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 3.

CONJURE BARRAGE
Level 3 Conjuration (Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon
worth at least 1 CP)

Duration: Instantaneous

You brandish the weapon used to cast the spell and
conjure similar spectral weapons (or ammunition
appropriate to the weapon) that launch forward and
then disappear. Each creature of your choice that
you can see in a 60-foot Cone makes a Dexterity
saving throw, taking 5d8 Force damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3.

 

CONJURE CELESTIAL

Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You conjure a spirit from the Upper Planes, which
manifests as a pillar of light in a 10-foot-radius,
40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a point within
range. For each creature you can see in the Cylin-
der, choose which of these lights shines on it:

Healing Light. The target regains Hit Points equal
to 4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.

Searing Light. The target makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 6d12 Radiant damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.

Until the spell ends, Bright Light fills the Cylinder,
and when you move on your turn, you can also
move the Cylinder up to 30 feet.

Whenever the Cylinder moves into the space of a
creature you can see and whenever a creature you
can see enters the Cylinder or ends its turn there,
you can bathe it in one of the lights. A creature can
be affected by this spell only once per turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing and
damage increase by 1d12 for each spell slot level
above 7.

CONJURE ELEMENTAL
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You conjure a Large, intangible spirit from the Ele-
mental Planes that appears in an unoccupied space
within range. Choose the spirit’s element, which
determines its damage type: air (Lightning), earth
(Thunder), fire (Fire), or water (Cold). The spirit
lasts for the duration.

Whenever a creature you can see enters the
spirit’s space or starts its turn within 5 feet of the
spirit, you can force that creature to make a Dex-
terity saving throw if the spirit has no creature
Restrained. On failed save, the target takes 8d8
damage of the spirit's type, and te target has the
Restrained condition until the sj 1! ends. At the
start of each of its turns, the Re: trained target re-
peats the save. On a failed save. t!.« target takes 4d8
damage of the spirit's type. On 2 siceessful save, the
target isn't Restrained by the sp «iv.

Using a Higher-Level Speil Sict. 1)». damage in-
creases by 2d8 for each spe!! slo! ‘ve! above 5.

  

 
 
 
    
 
 
  

CONJURE *EY |
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action —

Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You conjure a Medium spirit from the Feywild in
an unoccupied space you can see within range. The
spirit lasts for the duration, and it looks like a Fey
creature of your choice. When the spirit appears,
you can make one melee spell attack against a crea-
ture within 5 feet of it. On a hit, the target takes
Psychic damage equal to 3d12 plus your spellcasting
ability modifier, and the target has the Frightened
condition until the start of your next turn, with
both you and the spirit as the source of the fear.

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can
teleport the spirit to an unoccupied space you can
see within 30 feet of the space it left and make the
attack against a creature within 5S feet of it.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 2d12 for each spell slot level above 6.

ConyURE MINOR ELEMENTALS
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You conjure spirits from the Elemental Planes that
flit around you in a 15-foot Emanation for the dura-
tion. Until the spell ends, any attack you make deals
an extra 2d8 damage when you hit a creature in
the Emanation. This damage is Acid, Cold, Fire, or
Lightning (your choice when you make the attack).

In addition, the ground in the Emanation is Diffi-
cult Terrain for your enemies.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 4.

CONJURE VOLLEY
Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a Melee or Ranged weapon
worth at least 1 CP)

Duration: Instantaneous

You brandish te weapon used to cast the spell and
choose a point within range. Hundreds of similar
spectral weapons (or ammunition appropriate to
the weapon) ‘»:! in a volley and then disappear.

ature of your choice that you can see ina
dius, 20-foot-high Cylinder centered on

makes a Dexterity saving throw. A crea-

es 8d8 Force damage on a failed save or half

_ConjuRE WOODLAND BEINGS

Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You conjure nature spirits that flit around you in a
10-foot Emanation for the duration. Whenever the
Emanation enters the space of a creature you can
see and whenever a creature you can see enters the
Emanation or ends its turn there, you can force that
creature to make a Wisdom saving throw. The crea-
ture takes 5d8 Force damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one. A creature
makes this save only once per turn.

In addition, you can take the Disengage action as a
Bonus Action for the spell’s duration.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.

CONTACT OTHER PLANE
Level 5 Divination (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: 1 minute

You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a
long-dead sage, or some other knowledgeable entity
from another plane. Contacting this otherworldly
intelligence can break your mind. When you cast
this spell, make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw.
On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to
five questions. You must ask your questions before
the spell ends. The DM answers each question with
one word, such as “yes,” “no,” “maybe,” “never,” “ir-
relevant,” or “unclear” (if the entity doesn't know
the answer to the question). If a one-word answer
would be misleading, the DM might instead offer a
short phrase as an answer.

On a failed save, you take 6d6 Psychic damage
and have the Incapacitated condition until you fin-
ish a Long Rest. A Greater Restoration spell cast on
you ends this effect.

 

CONTAGION

Level 5 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Component: V, S

Duration: 7 days

Your touch inflicts a magical contagion. The target

must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or

take 11d8 Necrotic damage and have the Poisoned

condition. Also, choose one ability when you cast

the spell. While Poisoned, the target has Disadvan-

tage on saving throws made with the chosen ability.
The target must repeat the saving throw at the

end of each of its turns until it gets three successes

or failures. If the target succeeds on three of these

saves, the spell ends on the target. If the target fails

three of the saves, the spell lasts for 7 days on it.
Whenever the Poisoned target receives an effect

that would end the Poisoned condition, the target

must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or the

Poisoned condition doesn't end on it.

CONTINGENCY

Level 6 Abjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted statuette of
yourself worth 1,500+ GP)

Duration: 10 days

Choose a spell of level 5 or lower that you can cast,
that has a casting time of an action, and that can
target you. You cast that spell—called the contin-
gent spell—as part of casting Contingency, expending
spell slots for both, but the contingent spell doesn't
come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a cer-
tain trigger occurs. You describe that trigger when
you cast the two spells. For example, a Contingency
cast with Water Breathing might stipulate that Water
Breathing comes into effect when you are engulfed
in water or a similar liquid.

The contingent spell takes effect immediately af-
ter the trigger occurs for the first time, whether or
not you want it to, and then Contingency ends.

The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even
if it can normally target others. You can use only
one Contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell
again, the effect of another Contingency spell on you
ends. Also, Contingency ends on you if its material
component is ever not on your person.

 

CONTINUAL FLAME

Level 2 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 50+ Gp, Which
the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

A flame springs from an object that you touch. The
effect casts Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and
Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. It looks like a
regular flame, but it creates no heat and consumes
no fuel. The flame can be covered or hidden but not
smothered or quenched.

CONTROL WATER

Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 300 feet

Components: V, S, M (a mixture of water and dust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

Until the spell ends, you control any water inside an
area you choose that is a Cube up to 100 feet ona
side, using one of the following effects. As a Magic
action on your later turns, you can repeat the same
effect or choose a different one.

Flood. You cause the water level of all standing
water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If
you choose an area in a large body of water, you
instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from
one side of the area to the other and then crashes.
Any Huge or smaller vehicles in the wave's path
are carried with it to the other side. Any Huge or
smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 per-
cent chance of capsizing.

The water level remains elevated until the spell
ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect
produced a wave, the wave repeats on the start of
your next turn while the flood effect lasts.

Part Water. You part water in the area and cre-
ate a trench. The trench extends across the spell's
area, and the separated water forms a wall to either
side. The trench remains until the spell ends or you
choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills
in the trench over the course of the next round un-
til the normal water level is restored.

Redirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the area
to move in a direction you choose, even if the wa-
ter has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other
unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as
you direct it, but once it moves beyond the spell's
area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain. The
water continues to move in the direction you chose
until the spell ends or you choose a different effect,

a alae
a e _

ae

Whirlpool. You cause a whirlpool to form in the
center of the area, which must be at least 50 feet
square and 25 feet deep. The whirlpool lasts until
you choose a different effect or the spell ends. The
whirlpool is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet
wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature in the
water and within 25 feet of the whirlpool is pulled
10 feet toward it. When a creature enters the whirl-
pool for the first time on a turn or ends its turn
there, it makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed
save, the creature takes 2d8 Bludgeoning damage.
On a successful save, the creature takes half as
much damage. A creature can swim away from
the whirlpool only if it first takes an action to pull
away and succeeds on a Strength (Athletics) check
against your spell save DC.

CONTROL WEATHER

Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (burning incense)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours

You take contro! of the weather within 5 miles of

you for the duration. You must be outdoors to cast
this spell, and it ends early if you go indoors.
When you cast the spell, you change the current

weather conditions, which are determined by the

eM N-91 55 DRAGON CASTS CONTROL WEATHER TO
SAVE A COMMUNITY FROM A DESTRUCTIVE STORM. =~

 

DM. You can change precipitation, temperature,
and wind. It takes 1d4 x 10 minutes for the new
conditions to take effect. Once they do so, you can
change the conditions again. When the spell ends,
the weather gradually returns to normal.

When you change the weather conditions, find
a current condition on the following tables and
change its stage by one, up or down. When chang-
ing the wind, you can change its direction.

PRECIPITATION
Stage Condition

1 Clear
2 Light clouds
3 Overcast or ground fog
4 Rain, hail, or snow
5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard
TEMPERATURE WIND
Stage Condition Stage Condition
1 Heat wave 1 Calm
2 Hot 2 Moderate wind
3 Warm 3 Strong wind
4 Cool 4 Gale
5 Cold S Storm
6 ‘Freezing

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 257

CORDON OF ARROWS

Level 2 Transmutation (Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (an ornamental braid)
Duration: 8 hours

You touch up to four nonmagical Arrows or Bolts
and plant them in the ground in your space. Until
the spell ends, the ammunition can't be physically
uprooted, and whenever a creature other than you
enters a space within 30 feet of the ammunition for
the first time on a turn or ends its turn there, one
piece of ammunition flies up to strike it. The crea-
ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or
take 2d4 Piercing damage. The piece of ammunition
is then destroyed. The spell ends when none of the
ammunition remains planted in the ground.

When you cast this spell, you can designate any
creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The amount of am-
munition that can be affected increases by two for
each spell slot level above 2.

COUNTERSPELL
Level 3 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you see
a creature within 60 feet of yourself casting a spell
with Verbal, Somatic, or Material components

Range: 60 feet

Components: S

Duration: Instantaneous

You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process
of casting a spell. The creature makes a Constitu-
tion saving throw. On a failed save, the spell dissi-
pates with no effect, and the action, Bonus Action,
or Reaction used to cast it is wasted. If that spell
was cast with a spell slot, the slot isn't expended.

 

om. CREATE FoopD AND WATER

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

sh water on the ground or in containers within
—both useful in fending off the hazards of

    

CREATE OR DESTROY WATER

Level 1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a mix of water and sand)
Duration: Instantaneous

You do one of the following:

Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean
water within range in an open container. Alter-
natively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot Cube
within range, extinguishing exposed flames there

Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of _
water in an open container within range. Alter-
natively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot Cube within
range.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create or de-
stroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of
the Cube increases by 5 feet, for each spell slot level
above 1.

CREATE UNDEAD
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S, M (one 150+ GP black onyx stone
for each corpse)

Duration: Instantaneous

You can cast this spell only at night. Choose up
to three corpses of Medium or Small Humanoids
within range. Each one becomes a Ghoul under
your control (see the Monster Manual for its stat
block).

As a Bonus Action on each of your turns, you can
mentally command any creature you animated with
this spell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if
you control multiple creatures, you can command
any of them at the same time, issuing the same com-
mand to them). You decide what action the creature
will take and where it will move on its next turn, or
you can issue a general command, such as to guard
a particular place. If you issue no commands, the
creature takes the Dodge action and moves only to
avoid harm. Once given an order, the creature con-
tinues to follow the order until its task is complete.

The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you've
given it. To maintain control of the creature for
another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the
creature before the curre: 24-hour period ends.
fe spell reasseris your control over up _

  
    

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. |\f you use a level 7
spell slot, you can animate or reassert control over
four Ghouls. If you use a level 8 spell slot, you can
animate or reassert control over five Ghouls or two
Ghasts or Wights. If you use a level 9 spell slot, you
can animate or reassert control over six Ghouls,
three Ghasts or Wights, or two Mummies. See the
Monster Manual for these stat blocks.

CREATION
Level 5 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a paintbrush)
Duration: Special

You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shad-
owfell to create an object within range. It is either
an object of vegetable matter (soft goods, rope,
wood, and the like) or mineral matter (stone, crys-
tal, metal, and the like). The object must be no
larger than a 5-foot Cube, and the object must be of
a form and material that you have seen.

The spell's duration depends on the object's ma-
terial, as shown in the Materials table. If the object
is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest
duration. Using any object created by this spell as
another spell’s Material component causes the other
spell to fail.

MATERIALS

Material Duration
Vegetable matter 24 hours
Stone or crystal 12 hours
Precious metals 1 hour
Gems 10 minutes
Adamantine or mithral 1 minute

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cube increases
by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 5.

CROWN OF MADNESS
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

One creature that you can see within range must
succeed on » Wisdom saving throw or have the
Charmed condition for the duration. The creature

succeeds automatically if it isn't Humanoid. a

Aspectral crown appears on
head, and it rust use its action

Ww

 
  
    
  
 

each of its turns to make a melee attack against a
creature other than itself that you fasntally choose.
The target can act normally on its turn if you
choose no creature or if no creature is within its
reach. The target repeats the save at the end of each
of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a success.

On your later turns, you must take the Magic ac-
aa maintain control of the target, or the spell
en

ore

CRUSADER’S MANTLE

Level 3 Evocation (Paladin)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You radiate a magical aura in a 30-foot Emanation.
While in the aura, you and your allies each deal

an extra Id4 Radiant damage when hitting with a
weapon or an Unarmed Strike.

Cure Wounpbs

Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

A creature you touch regains a number of Hit
Points equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability
modifier.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 1.

DANCING LIGHTS
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You create up to four torch-size lights within rar
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glow-
ing orbs that hover for the duration. Alternatively
you combine the four lights into one glowing |
dium form that is vaguely humanlike. Which«
form you choose, each light sheds Dim Ligh
10-foot radius. 7 x

As a Bonus Action, you can move
to 60 feet to

th feet

is
a

    
  
     
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

\

/

ah ee e

"3 t

AN ELF CLERIC USES THE SPELL :
;

DAYLIGHT TO BRING THE LIGHT

OF DAWN TO A VAMPIRE COURT.

a)

4

 

re ke

—_— | =

DARKNESS
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, M (bat fur and a piece of coal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

For the duration, magical Darkness spreads from a
point within range and fills a 15-foot-radius Sphere.
Darkvision can't see through it, and nonmagical
light can’t illuminate it.

Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that
isn't being worn or carried, causing the Darkness
to fill a 15-foot Emanation originating from that

object. Covering that object with something opaque,

such as a bowl or helm, blocks the Darkness.

If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of
Bright Light or Dim Light created by a spell of level
2 or lower, that other spell is dispelled.

260 CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

ie el

Pax: a

> Toys

DARKVISION
Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)

 

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a dried carrot)
Duration: 8 hours

For the duration, a willing creature you touch has
Darkvision with a range of 150 feet.

DAYLIGHT
Level 3 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Sorcerer)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour

For the duration, sunlight spreads from a point
within range and fills a 60-foot-radius Sphere. The
sunlight’s area is Bright Light and sheds Dim Light
for an additional 60 feet.

Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that
isn't being worn or carried, causing the sunlight to
fill a 60-foot Emanation originating from that ob-
ject. Covering that object with something opaque,
such as a bowl or helm, blocks the sunlight.

If any of this spells area overlaps with an area of
Darkness created by a spell of level 3 or lower, that
other spell is dispelled.

DEATH WARD

Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: 8 hours

You touch a creature and grant it a measure of pro-
tection from death. The first time the target would
drop to O Hit Points before the spell ends, the target
instead drops to 1 Hit Point, and the spell ends.

If the spell is still in effect when the target is sub-
jected to an effect that would kill it instantly with-
out dealing damage, that effect is negated against
the target, and the spell ends.

DELAYED BLAST FIREBALL
Level 7 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A beam of yellow light flashes from you, then con-
denses at a chosen point within range as a glowing
bead for the duration. When the spell ends, the bead
explodes, and each creature in a 20-foot-radius
Sphere centered on that point makes a Dexterity
saving throw. A creature takes Fire damage equal
to the total accumulated damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.

The spell’s base damage is 12d6, and the damage
increases by 1d6 whenever your turn ends and the
spell hasn't ended.

If a creature touches the glowing bead before the
spell ends, that creature makes a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, the spell ends, causing the
bead to explode. On a successful save, the creature
can throw the bead up to 40 feet. If the thrown
bead enters a creature's space or collides witha
solid object, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.

When the bead explodes, flammable objects in the
explosion that aren't being worn or carried start
burning.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The base damage —

increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above7,

4
=

a
DEMIPLANE
Level 8 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: 1 hour

You create a shadowy Medium door on a flat solid
surface that you can see within range. This door
can be opened and closed, and it leads to a demi-
plane that is an empty room 30 feet in each dimen-
sion, made of wood or stone (your choice).

When the spell ends, the door vanishes, and any
objects inside the demiplane remain there. Any
creatures inside also remain unless they opt to be
shunted through the door as it vanishes, landing
with the Prone condition in the unoccupied spaces
closest to the door’s former space.

Each time you cast this spell, you can create a
new demiplane or connect the shadowy door to
a demiplane you created with a previous casting
of this spell. Additionally, if you know the nature
and contents of a demiplane created by a casting of
this spell by another creature, you can connect the
shadowy door to that demiplane instead.

DESTRUCTIVE WAVE
Level 5 Evocation (Paladin)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

Destructive energy ripples outward from you in a
30-foot Emanation. Each creature you choose in

the Emanation makes a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, a target takes 5d6 Thunder damage
and 5d6 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your choice)
and has the Prone condition. On a successful save, a

target takes half as much damage only. y
a i, ee oe
DETECT EvIL AND GoopD pat ee
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Paladin) i» -
Casting Time: Action yee
Range: Self ey
Components: V, S .

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of any At

erration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undea
thin 30 feet of yourself. You also sense whe

  
  
     
  
 
 
 
  

*
led
2

  

 
  
   

Detect MAGIC

Level 1 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

For the duration, you sense the presence of magical
effects within 30 feet of yourself. If you sense such
effects, you can take the Magic action to see a faint
aura around any visible creature or object in the
area that bears the magic, and if an effect was cre-
ated by a spell, you learn the spell’s school of magic.

The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
wood; | inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.

DETECT POISON AND DISEASE

Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a yew leaf)

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

For the duration, you sense the location of poisons,
poisonous or venomous creatures, and magical
contagions within 30 feet of yourself. You sense the
kind of poison, creature, or contagion in each case.

The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.

DETECT THOUGHTS

Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (1 Copper Piece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You activate one of the effects below. Until the spell
ends, you can activate either effect as a Magic ac-
tion on your later turns.

_ Sense Thoughts. You sense the presence of
thoughts within 30 feet of yourself that belong to
creatures that know languages or are telepathic.
don't read the thoughts, but you know that a

 
 
 

up to physical inspection. For example, if you use

As a Magic action on your next (opi, you cant
to probe deeper into the target's mind. IF you sek
deeper, the target makes a Wisdom saving throw
On a failed save, you discern the target's reasonin
emotions, and something that looms large in its :
mind (such as a worry, love, or hate). On a success-
ful save, the spell ends. Either way, the target kno
that you are probing into its mind, and until] you 7
shift your attention away from the target's mind
the target can take an action on its turn to make an
Intelligence (Arcana) check against your Spell save
DC, ending the spell on a success.

DIMENSION DOOR

Level 4 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 500 feet

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

You teleport to a location within range. You arrive
at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place you can
see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe
by stating distance and direction, such as “200 feet
straight downward” or “300 feet upward to the
northwest at a 45-degree angle.”

You can also teleport one willing creature. The
creature must be within 5 feet of you when you
teleport, and it teleports to a space within 5 feet of
your destination space.

If you, the other creature, or both would arrive in
a space occupied by a creature or completely filled
by one or more objects, you and any creature trav-
eling with you each take 4d6 Force damage, and the
teleportation fails.

DISGUISE SELF
Level I Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour

You make yourself—including your clothing, armor,
weapons, and other belongings on your person—
look different until the spell ends. You can seem

1 foot shorter or taller and can appear heavier or
lighter. You must adopt a form that has the same
basic arrangement of limbs as you have. Otherwise,
the extent of the illusion is up to you.

The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold

b r a

da hat to your outfit, objects pe

Tote

 

    

To discern that you are disguised, a creature must
take the Study action to inspect your appearance
and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save DC.

DISINTEGRATE
Level 6 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and dust)
Duration: Instantaneous

You launch a green ray at a target you can see
within range. The target can be a creature, a non-
magical object, or a creation of magical force, such
as the wall created by Wall of Force.

A creature targeted by this spell makes a Dexter-
ity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes
10d6 + 40 Force damage. If this damage reduces it
to O Hit Points, it and everything nonmagical it is
wearing and carrying are disintegrated into gray
dust. The target can be revived only by a True Resur-
rection or a Wish spell.

This spell automatically disintegrates a Large or
smaller nonmagical object or a creation of magical

force. If such » target is Huge or larger, this spell
disintegrates « |0-foot-Cube portion of it.
Using a Hiz*:: r-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-

creases by 3:< ‘or each spell slot level above 6.

A TIEFLING CLeric cast Disrer EVIN ANO
GOOD TO EXPEL AN EVIL SPIRIT FROM A
POSSESSED INNOCENT.

DISPEL EVIL AND Goop
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (powdered silver and iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

For the duration, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends,
and Undead have Disadvantage on attack rolls
against you. You can end the spell early by using ei-
ther of the following special functions.

Break Enchantment. As a Magic action, you touch
a creature that is possessed by or has the Charmed
or Frightened condition from one or more creatures
of the types above. The target is no longer pos-
sessed, Charmed, or Frightened by such creatures.

Dismissal. As a Magic action, you target one crea-
ture you can see within 5 feet of you that has one of
the creature types above. The target must succeed
on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its
home plane if it isn't there already. If they aren't on
their home plane, Undead are sent to the Shadow-
fell, and Fey are sent to the Feywild.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

 

Jee).

263

264.

 

A OWARF PALADIN EMPOWERS HER WEAPON WITH Divine SMITE,
UNLEASHING HOLY WRATH! ON FIENDISH MEZZLOLOTHS.

DISPEL MAGIC

Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

Choose one creature, object, or magical effect
within range. Any ongoing spell of level 3 or lower
on the target ends. For each ongoing spell of level 4
or higher on the target, make an ability check us-
ing your spellcasting ability (DC 10 plus that spell’s
level). On a successful check, the spell ends.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You automatically
end a spell on the target if the spell’s level is equal to
or less than the level of the spell slot you use.

DISSONANT WHISPERS
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

One creature of your choice that you can see within
range hears a discordant melody in its mind. The

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

 

target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, it takes 3d6 Psychic damage and must imme-
diately use its Reaction, if available, to move as far
away from you as it can, using the safest route. Ona
successful save, the target takes half as much dam-
age only.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

DIVINATION

Level 4 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (incense worth 25+ GP, which
the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

This spell puts you in contact with a god or a god's
servants. You ask one question about a specific

goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The
DM offers a truthful reply, which might be a short

phrase or cryptic rhyme. The spell doesn't account
for circumstances that might change the answer,
such as the casting of other spells

If you cast the spell more than once before finish-
ing a Long Rest, there is a ctinulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get
no answer.

 

DIVINE FAVOR

Level 1 Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: 1 minute

Until the spell ends, your attacks with weapons deal
an extra 1d4 Radiant damage on a hit.

DIVINE SMITE

Level I Evocation (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: Instantaneous

The target takes an extra 2d8 Radiant damage from
the attack. The damage increases by 1d8 if the tar-
get is a Fiend or an Undead.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1.

DIVINE WORD
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric)

Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

You utter a word imbued with power from the Up-
per Planes. Each creature of your choice in range
makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save,
a target that has 5O Hit Points or fewer suffers an
effect based on its current Hit Points, as shown in
the Divine Word Effects table. Regardless of its Hit
Points, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, or a Fiend
target that fails its save is forced back to its plane of
origin (if it isn’t there already) and can’t return to
the current plane for 24 hours by any means short
of a Wish spell.

Divine Worp EFFectTs
Hit Points Effect
0-20 ‘The target dies.

21-30 ‘The target has the Blinded, Deafened,
and Stunned conditions for 1 hour.

31-40 ‘The target has the Blinded and Deaf-
ened conditions for 10 minutes.

41-50 The target has the Deafened condition

“or 1 minute.

a 7 a
a
iw =

(=e

DOMINATE BEAST

Level 4 Enchantment (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

One Beast you can see within range must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed
condition for the duration. The target has Advan-
tage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it.
Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.

You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar-
get while the two of you are on the same plane of
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to
issue commands to the target (no action required),
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,”
or “Fetch that object.” The target does its best to
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it acts and
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.

You can command the target to take a Reaction
but must take your own Reaction to do so.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 5 (up to
10 minutes), 6 (up to 1 hour), or 7+ (up to 8 hours).

DOMINATE MONSTER
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

One creature you can see within range must a
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight-

ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats

the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.

You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar-
get while the two of you are on the same plane of
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to —
issue commands to the target (no action required)
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over th :
or “Fetch that object.” The target does its beset i
obey on its turn. IFit completes an order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it acts
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting ;
You can command the target to take a action

tt

 

    
   
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  

266

DOMINATE PERSON

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

One Humanoid you can see within range must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight-
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.

You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar-
get while the two of you are on the same plane of
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to
issue commands to the target (no action required),
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,”
or “Fetch that object.” The target does its best to
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
receive further direction from you, it acts and
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.

You can command the target to take a Reaction
but must take your own Reaction to do so.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 6 (up to
10 minutes), 7 (up to 1 hour), or 8+ (up to 8 hours).

DRAGON'S BREATH
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a hot pepper)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You touch one willing creature, and choose Acid,
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison. Until the spell
ends, the target can take a Magic action to exhale
a 15-foot Cone. Each creature in that area makes a
Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of the
chosen type on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.

DrawMI's INSTANT SUMMONS
Level 6 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (2 sapphire worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled

You touch the sapphire used in the casting and an
object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest di-
mension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an Invisible

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

mark on that object and invisibly ins. : :!.es the ob-
ject's name on the sapphire. Each tim you cast this
spell, you must use a different sapphii~.

Thereafter, you can take a Magic action to speak
the object's name and crush the sapphire. The ob-
ject instantly appears in your hand regardless of
physical or planar distances, and the spell ends.

If another creature is holding or carrying the ob-
ject, crushing the sapphire doesn't transport it, but
instead you learn who that creature is and where
that creature is currently located.

DREAM
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Special

Components: V, S, M (a handful of sand)
Duration: 8 hours

You target a creature you know on the same plane
of existence. You or a willing creature you touch
enters a trance state to act as a dream messenger,
While in the trance, the messenger is Incapacitated
and has a Speed of 0.

If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in
the target's dreams and can converse with the tar-
get as long as it remains asleep, through the spells
duration. The messenger can also shape the dream's
environment, creating landscapes, objects, and
other images. The messenger can emerge from the
trance at any time, ending the spell. The target re-
calls the dream perfectly upon waking.

If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the
messenger knows it and can either end the trance
(and the spell) or wait for the target to sleep, at
which point the messenger enters its dreams.

You can make the messenger terrifying to the tar-
get. If you do so, the messenger can deliver a mes-
sage of no more than ten words, and then the target
makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the
target gains no benefit from its rest, and it takes 3d6
Psychic damage when it wakes up.

DRUIDCRAFT
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one
of the following effects within range.

Weather Sensor. You craic a Tiny, harmless sen-
sory effect that predicts what the weather will be
at your location for the next 24 hours. The effect
might manifest as a goldes; <b for clear skies, a

 

A SPRITE CASTS
DRUIOCRAFT TO
MAKE FLOWERS

BLOSSOM.

7

cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so
on. This effect persists for 1 round.

Bloom. You instantly make a flower blossom, a
seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.

Sensory Effect. You create a harmless sensory ef-
fect, such as falling leaves, spectral dancing fairies,
a gentle breeze, the sound of an animal, or the faint
odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot Cube.

Fire Play. You light or snuff out a candle, a torch,
or a campfire.

EARTHQUAKE
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 500 feet

Components: V, S, M (a fractured rock)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Choose a point on the ground that you can see
within range. For the duration, an intense tremor
rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle
centered on that point. The ground there is Difficult
Terrain.

When you cast this spell and at the end of each of
your turns for the duration, each creature on the
ground in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed save, a creature has the Prone condition,
and its Concentration is broken.

You can also cause the effects below.

Fissures. A total of 1d6 fissures open in the spell's
area at the end of the turn you cast it. You choose
the fissures’ locations, which can't be under struc-
tures. Each fissure is 1d10 « 10 feet deep and 10 feet
wide, and it extends from one edge of the spell’s
area to another edge. A creature in the same space
as a fissure must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves
moves with the fissure's edge as it opens.

Structures. The tremor deals 50 Bludgeoning
damage to any structure in contact with the ground
in the area when you cast the spell and at the end of
each of your ‘urns until the spell ends. If a structure
drops to © 1i'< Points, it collapses.

sis

 
 
  

a
A creature within a distance from a collapsing

structure equal to half the structure's height makes

a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the crea-
ture takes 12d6 Bludgeoning damage, has the Prone

> condition, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a
* DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to
_ escape. On a successful save, the creature takes half

as much damage only.

ELDRITCH BLAST
Evocation Cantrip (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You hurl a beam of crackling energy. Make a ranged
spell attack against one creature or object in range.
On a hit, the target takes 1d10 Force damage.

Cantrip Upgrade. The spell creates two beams at
level 5S, three beams at level 11, and four beams at
level 17. You can direct the beams at the same target
or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for
each beam.

ELEMENTALISM

Transmutation Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You exert control over the elements, creating one of
the following effects within range.

Beckon Air. You create a breeze strong enough to
ripple cloth, stir dust, rustle leaves, and close open
doors and shutters, all in a 5-foot Cube. Doors and
shutters being held open by someone or something
aren't affected.

Beckon Earth. You create a thin shroud of dust or
sand that covers surfaces in a 5-foot-square area, or
you cause a single word to appear in your handwrit-
ing in a patch of dirt or sand.

Beckon Fire. You create a thin cloud of harmless
embers and colored, scented smoke in a 5-foot Cube.
You choose the color and scent, and the embers can
light candles, torches, or lamps in that area. The
smoke's scent lingers for 1 minute.

Beckon Water. You create a spray of cool mist that
lightly dampens creatures and objects in a 5-foot
Cube. Alternatively, you create 1 cup of clean water
either in an open container or on a surface, and the
water evaporates in | minute.

Sculpt Element. You cause dirt, sand, fire, smoke,
mist, or water that can fit in a 1-foot Cube to assume
a crude shape (such as that of a creature) for 1 hour.

% CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS © SF tis

ELEMENTAL WEAPON

Level 3 Transmutation (Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic
weapon. Choose one of the following damage types:
Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder. For the du-
ration, the weapon has a +1 bonus to attack rolls and
deals an extra 1d4 damage of the chosen type when
it hits.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level
5-6 spell slot, the bonus to attack rolls increases to
+2, and the extra damage increases to 2d4. If you
use a level 7+ spell slot, the bonus increases to +3,
and the extra damage increases to 3d4.

ENHANCE ABILITY

Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger,
Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (fur or a feather)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You touch a creature and choose Strength, Dex-
terity, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. For the
duration, the target has Advantage on ability checks
using the chosen ability.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.
You can choose a different ability for each target.

ENLARGE/REDUCE
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

For the duration, the spell enlarges or reduces a
creature or an object you can see within range (see
the chosen effect below). A targeted object must
be neither worn nor carried. If the target is an un-
willing creature, it can make a Constitution saving
throw. On a successful save, the spell has no effect.
Everything that a targeted creature is wearing
and carrying changes size with it. Any item it drops
returns to normal size at once. A thrown weapon or
piece of ammunition returns to normal size imme-
diately after it hits or misses a target.

CHAPTER 7!) SPELIS as

Enlarge. The target's size increases by one ais
egory—from Medium to Large, for example. The
target also has Advantage on Strength checks and
Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with
its enlarged weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal an
extra 1d4 damage on a hit.

Reduce. The target's size decreases by one cate-
gory—from Medium to Small, for example. The tan
get also has Disadvantage on Strength checks and
Strength saving throws. The target's attacks with
its reduced weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal 1d4
less damage on a hit (this can’t reduce the damage
below 1).

ENSNARING STRIKE

Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a creature with a weapon

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

As you hit the target, grasping vines appear on it,
and it makes a Strength saving throw. A Large or
larger creature has Advantage on this save. Ona
failed save, the target has the Restrained condition
until the spell ends. On a successful save, the vines
shrivel away, and the spell ends.

While Restrained, the target takes 1d6 Piercing
damage at the start of each of its turns. The target
or a creature within reach of it can take an action to
make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell
save DC. On a success, the spell ends.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

ENTANGLE

Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Grasping plants sprout from the ground in a 20-foot
square within range. For the duration, these plants
turn the ground in the area into Difficult Terrain.
They disappear when the spell ends.

Each creature (other than you) in the area when
you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength sav-
ing throw or have the Restrained condition until the
spell ends. A Restrained creature can take an action
to make a Strength (Athletics) check against your
spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself from the
grasping plants and is no Jonger Restrained by them.

ENTHRALL
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You weave a distracting string of words, causing
creatures of your choice that you can see within
range to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any crea-
ture you or your companions are fighting automati-
cally succeeds on this save. On a failed save, a target
has a -10 penalty to Wisdom (Perception) checks
and Passive Perception until the spell ends.

ETHEREALNESS
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to 8 hours

You step into the border regions of the Ethereal
Plane, where it overlaps with your current plane.

A DRAGONBORN Druid uses ENTANGLE
TO STOP RAMPAGING GNOLLS. §

 

You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration.
During this time, you can move in any direction. If
you move up or down, every foot of movement costs
an extra foot. You can perceive the plane you left,
which looks gray, and you can't see anything there
more than 60 feet away.

While on the Ethereal Plane, you can affect and
be affected only by creatures, objects, and effects
on that plane. Creatures that aren't on the Ethereal
Plane can't perceive or interact with you unless a
feature gives them the ability to do so.

When the spell ends, you return to the plane you
left in the spot that corresponds to your space in the
Border Ethereal. If you appear in an occupied space,
you are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space
and take Force damage equal to twice the number
of feet you are moved.

This spell ends instantly if you cast it while you
are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn't
border it, such as one of the Outer Planes.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target up
to three willing creatures (including yourself) for
each spell slot level above 7. The creatures must be
within 10 feet of you when you cast the spell.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS A 269

oo 1

— . ru
THE WIZARD EVARD CAIUSIOND SIS INFAMOUS Sipleinie
Evaro S BUACK TENTAGHES’ TO TEACH RECKLESS
BANDITS A LESSON.

.

eee

270

Sa

EvARD's BLACK TENTACLES
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a tentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on
ground that you can see within range. For the du-
ration, these tentacles turn the ground in that area
into Difficult Terrain.

Each creature in that area makes a Strength sav-
ing throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Bludgeon-
ing damage, and it has the Restrained condition
until the spell ends. A creature also makes that save
if it enters the area or ends it turn there. A creature
makes that save only once per turn.

A Restrained creature can take an action to make
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success.

EXPEDITIOUS RETREAT
Level 1 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You take the Dash action, and until the spell ends,
you can take that action again as a Bonus Action.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

 

EYEBITE

Level 6 Necromancy (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

For the duration, your eyes become an inky void.
One creature of your choice within 60 feet of you
that you can see must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or be affected by one of the following effects
of your choice for the duration.

On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can
take a Magic action to target another creature but
can't target a creature again if it has succeeded ona
save against this casting of the spell.

Asleep. The target has the Unconscious condition.
It wakes up if it takes any damage or if another
creature takes an action to shake it awake.

Panicked. The target has the Frightened condition.
On each of its turns, the Frightened target must
take the Dash action and move away from you by
the safest and shortest route available. If the target
moves to a space at least 60 feet away from you
where it can’t see you, this effect ends.

Sickened. The target has the Poisoned condition.

FABRICATE

Level 4 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You convert raw materials into products of the
same material. For example, you can fabricate a
wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope froma
patch of hemp, or clothes from flax or wool.

Choose raw materials that you can see within
range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object
(contained within a 10-foot Cube or eight connected
5-foot Cubes) given a sufficient quantity of mate-
rial. If you're working with metal, stone, or another
mineral substance, however, the fabricated object
can be no larger than Medium (contained within a
5-foot Cube). The quality of any fabricated objects is
based on the quality of the raw materials.

Creatures and magic items can't be created by
this spell. You also can’t use it to create items that
require a high degree of skill—such as weapons and
armor—unless you have proficiency with the type of
Artisan’s Tools used to craft such objects.

FAERIE FIRE
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Objects in a 20-foot Cube within range are out-
lined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice).
Each creature in the Cube is also outlined if it fails
a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects
and affected creatures shed Dim Light in a 10-foot
radius and can't benefit from the Invisible condition.
Attack rolls against an affected creature or object
have Advantage if the attacker can see it.

FALSE LIFE
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a drop of alcohol)
Duration: Instantaneous

You gain 2d4 + 4 Temporary Hit Points.

Using a ii'zher-Level Spell Slot. You gain 5 addi-
tional Tem »rary Hit Points for each spell slot level
above I.

FEAR

Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a white feather)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Each creature in a 30-foot Cone must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding
and have the Frightened condition for the duration.
A Frightened creature takes the Dash action and
moves away from you by the safest route on each
of its turns unless there is nowhere to move. If the
creature ends its turn in a space where it doesn't
have line of sight to you, the creature makes a Wis-
dom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell
ends on that creature.

FEATHER FALL
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you or a
creature you can see within 60 feet of you falls

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down)

Duration: 1 minute

Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A
falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per
round until the spell ends. If a creature lands before
the spell ends, the creature takes no damage from
the fall, and the spell ends for that creature.

FEIGN DEATH
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt)
Duration: 1 hour

You touch a willing creature and put it into a cata-
leptic state that is indistinguishable from death.

For the duration, the target appears dead to out-
ward inspection and to spells used to determine the
target's status. The target has the Blinded and Inca-
pacitated conditions, and its Speed is 0.

The target also has Resistance to all damage ex-
cept Psychic damage, and it has Immunity to the
Poisoned condition.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS ony

2790 —

  

Spirits suMMONED BY Find Famimiar
TAKE FORMS INSPIRED BY THE MAGES
wMO CONJURE THEM.

FIND FAMILIAR
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 hour or Ritual

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S, M (burning incense worth 10+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes
an animal form you choose: Bat, Cat, Frog, Hawk,
Lizard, Octopus, Owl, Rat, Raven, Spider, Weasel,
or another Beast that has a Challenge Rating of 0.
Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the
familiar has the statistics of the chosen form (see
appendix B), though it is a Celestial, Fey, or Fiend
(your choice) instead of a Beast. Your familiar acts
independently of you, but it obeys your commands.

Telepathic Connection. While your familiar is
within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with
it telepathically. Additionally, as a Bonus Action,
you can see through the familiar’s eyes and hear
what it hears until the start of your next turn, gain-
ing the benefits of any special senses it has.

Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of
touch, your familiar can deliver the touch. Your
familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must
take a Reaction to deliver the touch when you cast
the spell.

Combat. The familiar is an ally to you and your
allies, It rolls its own Initiative and acts on its own
turn. A familiar can’t attack, but it can take other
actions as normal.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

Disappearance of the Familiar. When the familiar
drops to O Hit Points, it disappears. It reappears
after you cast this spell again. As a Magic action,
you can temporarily dismiss the familiar to a pocket
dimension. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever.
As a Magic action while it is temporarily dismissed,
you can cause it to reappear in an unoccupied space
within 30 feet of you. Whenever the familiar drops
to O Hit Points or disappears into the pocket dimen-
sion, it leaves behind in its space anything it was
wearing or carrying.

One Familiar Only. You can't have more than one
familiar at a time. If you cast this spell while you
have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new
eligible form.

FIND STEED
Level 2 Conjuration (Paladin)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You summon an otherworldly being that appears as
a loyal steed in an unoccupied space of your choice
within range. This creature uses the Otherworldly
Steed stat block. If you already have a steed from
this spell, the steed is replaced by the new one.

The steed resembles a Large, rideable animal of
your choice, such as a horse, a camel, a dire wolf,
or an elk. Whenever you cast the spell, choose the
steed's creature type—Celestial, Fey, or Fiend—
which determines certain traits in the stat block.

———

OTHER VORLDLY STEED
RWORLDLY STEED
Large Celestial, Fey, or Fiend (Your Choice), Neutral

AC 10 + 1 per spell level

HP 5 + 10 per spell level (the steed has a number of Hit
Dice [d10s] equal to the spell’s level)

Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (requires level 4+ spell)

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
Str 18 +4 +4 Dex 12 +1 +1 CONn14 +2 42
Int 6 -2 -2 Wis 12 +1 +1 CHa8 -1 1

Senses Passive Perception 11

Languages Telepathy 1 mile (works only with you)
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
TRAITS

TRAITS
Life Bond. When you regain Hit Points from a level 1+
spell, the steed regains the same number of Hit Points
if you're within 5 feet of it.

ACTIONS

Otherworldly Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus the
spell's level of Radiant (Celestial), Psychic (Fey), or Ne-
crotic (Fiend) damage.

 

Bonus ACTIONS

Fell Glare (Fiend Only; Recharges after a Long Rest).
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC,
one creature within 60 feet the steed can see. Failure:
| The target has the Frightened condition until the end of
| your next turn.

Fey Step (Fey Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The
steed teleports, along with its rider, to an unoccupied
space of your choice up to 60 feet away from itself.

Healing Touch (Celestial Only; Recharges after a Long
Rest). One creature within 5 feet of the steed regains a
number of Hit Points equal to 2d8 plus the spell’s level.

 

Combat. The steed is an ally to you and your al-
lies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, and
it functions as a controlled mount while you ride it
(as defined in the rules on mounted combat). If you
have the Incapacitated condition, the steed takes
its turn immediately after yours and acts inde-
pendently, focusing on protecting you.

Disappearance of the Steed. The steed disappears
if it drops to O Hit Points or if you die. When it dis-
appears, it leaves behind anything it was wearing
or carrying. If you cast this spell again, you decide
whether you summon the steed that disappeared or
a different one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.

 

 

FIND THE PATH

Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a set of divination tools—such
as cards or runes—worth 100+ GP)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day

You magically sense the most direct physical route
to a location you name. You must be familiar with
the location, and the spell fails if you name a desti-
nation on another plane of existence, a moving des-
tination (such as a mobile fortress), or an unspecific
destination (such as “a green dragon's lair”).

For the duration, as long as you are on the same
plane of existence as the destination, you know
how far it is and in what direction it lies. Whenever
you face a choice of paths along the way there, you
know which path is the most direct.

FIND TRAPS

Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You sense any trap within range that is within line
of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, in-
cludes any object or mechanism that was created
to cause damage or other danger. Thus, the spell
would sense the Alarm or Glyph of Warding spell or a
mechanical pit trap, but it wouldn't reveal a natural
weakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hid-
den sinkhole.

This spell reveals that a trap is present but not
its location. You do learn the general nature of the
danger posed by a trap you sense.

FINGER OF DEATH
Level 7 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You unleash negative energy toward a creature you
can see within range. The target makes a Constitu-
tion saving throw, taking 7d8 + 30 Necrotic damage
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-
cessful one.
A Humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start
of your next turn as a Zombie (see appendix B) that
follows your verbal orders.

CHAPTER 7ISPELLS a7

one
J a /‘y

 

FIREBALL

Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous

A bright streak flashes from you to a point you
choose within range and then blossoms with a
low roar into a fiery explosion. Each creature ina
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on that point makes
a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 Fire damage
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-
cessful one.

Flammable objects in the area that aren't being
worn or carried start burning.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3.

Fire BOLT

Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or an object
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the

AN ELF WIZARD DEMONSTRATES THE PROBLEM-SOLVING
POTENTIAL OF THE SPELL FIREBALL.

 

target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 Fire damage.
A flammable object hit by this spell starts burning if
it isn’t being worn or carried.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10
when you reach levels 5S (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17
(4d10).

FIRE SHIELD
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or a firefly)
Duration: 10 minutes

Wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration,
shedding Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim
Light for an additional 10 feet.

The flames provide you with a warm shield or a
chill shield, as you choose. The warm shield grants
you Resistance to Cold damage, and the chill shield
grants you Resistance to Fire damage.

In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet
of you hits you with a melee attack roll, the shield
erupts with flame. The attacker takes 2d8 Fire dam-
age from a warm shield or 2d8 Cold damage froma
chill shield.

FrrE STORM
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V,S

Duration: Instantaneous

A storm of fire appears within range. The area of
the storm consists of up to ten 10-foot Cubes, which
you arrange as you like. Each Cube must be contig-
uous with at least one other Cube. Each creature
in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking
7d10 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much
damage ona successful one.

Flammable objects in the area that aren't being
worn or carried start burning.

FLAME BLADE
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a sumac leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade
is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts
for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disap-
pears, but you can evoke it again as a Bonus Action.

As a Magic action, you can make a melee spell at-
tack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes
Fire damage equal to 3d6 plus your spellcasting
ability modifier.

The flaming blade sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot
radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.

FLAME STRIKE
Level 5 Evocation (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous

A vertical column of brilliant fire roars down from
above. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-
high Cylinder centered on a point within range
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d6 Fire
damage and 5d6 Radiant damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Fire damage
and the Radiant damage increase by 1d6 for each
spell slot !evel above 5.

   

2 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
sting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

‘Components: V, S, M (a ball of wax)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

    

You create a 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire in an un-
occupied space on the ground within range. It lasts
for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn
within 5 feet of the sphere makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 2d6 Fire damage on a failed save or
half as much damage on a successful one.

As a Bonus Action, you can move the sphere up to
30 feet, rolling it along the ground. If you move the
sphere into a creature's space, that creature makes
the save against the sphere, and the sphere stops
moving for the turn.

When you move the sphere, you can direct it over
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up
to 10 feet wide. Flammable objects that aren't being
worn or carried start burning if touched by the
sphere, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius
and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.

FLESH TO STONE
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a cockatrice feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You attempt to turn one creature that you can see
within range into stone. The target makes a Consti-
tution saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Re-
strained condition for the duration. On a successful
save, its Speed is O until the start of your next turn.
Constructs automatically succeed on the save.

A Restrained target makes another Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it
successfully saves against this spell three times, the
spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is turned
to stone and has the Petrified condition for the
duration. The successes and failures needn't be con-
secutive; keep track of both until the target collects
three of a kind.

If you maintain your Concentration on this spell
for the entire possible duration, the target is Pet-
rified until the condition is ended by Greater Resto-
ration or similar magic.

CHAPTER7/SPELLS onf

FLy ;
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a feather)

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the
target gains a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can hover.
When the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft

unless it can stop the fall.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 5.

Foc CLoupD

Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of fog centered
on a point within range. The Sphere is Heavily
Obscured. It lasts for the duration or until a strong
wind (such as one created by Gust of Wind) dis-
perses it.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The fog's radius
increases by 20 feet for each spell slot level above 1.

FORBIDDANCE
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: 10 minutes or Ritual

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: 1 day

You create a ward against magical travel that pro-
tects up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a
height of 30 feet above the floor. For the duration,
creatures can't teleport into the area or use portals,
such as those created by the Gate spell, to enter the
area. The spell proofs the area against planar travel,
and therefore prevents creatures from accessing the
area by way of the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane,
the Feywild, the Shadowfell, or the Plane Shift spell.

In addition, the spell damages types of creatures
that you choose when you cast it. Choose one or
more of the following: Aberrations, Celestials, Ele-
mentals, Fey, Fiends, and Undead. When a creature
of a chosen type enters the spell's area for the first
time on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature
takes 5d10 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your
choice when you cast this spell).

 

You can designate a password whey: vou cast the
spell. A creature that speaks the password as it en-
ters the area takes no damage from the spell,

The spell’s area can't overlap with the area of
another Forbiddance spell. If you cast Forbiddance
every day for 30 days in the same location, the spell
lasts until it is dispelled, and the Material compo-
nents are consumed on the last casting.

FORCECAGE
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 100 feet

Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,500+ Gp,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

An immobile, Invisible, Cube-shaped prison com-
posed of magical force springs into existence
around an area you choose within range. The prison
can be a cage or a solid box, as you choose.

A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20
feet on a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter
bars spaced 1/2 inch apart. A prison in the shape
of a box can be up to 10 feet on a side, creating a
solid barrier that prevents any matter from passing
through it and blocking any spells cast into or out
from the area.

When you cast the spell, any creature that is com-
pletely inside the cage’s area is trapped. Creatures
only partially within the area, or those too large to
fit inside it, are pushed away from the center of the
area until they are completely outside it.

A creature inside the cage can't leave it by non-
magical means. If the creature tries to use teleporta-
tion or interplanar travel to leave, it must first make
a Charisma saving throw. On a successful save, the
creature can use that magic to exit the cage. Ona
failed save, the creature doesn't exit the cage and
wastes the spell or effect. The cage also extends into
the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal travel.

This spell can't be dispelled by Dispel Magic.

FORESIGHT
Level 9 Divination (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a hummingbird feather)
Duration: 8 hours

You touch a willing creature and bestow a limited
ability to see into the immediate future. For the du-
ration, the target has Advantage on D20 Tests, and
other creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls
against it. The spell ends early if you cast it again.

   

ohdaliie

FouNT ©F MOONLIGHT

Level 4 Evocation (Bard, Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

A cool light wreathes your body for the duration,
emitting Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim
Light for an additional 20 feet.

Until the spell ends, you have Resistance to Radi-
ant damage, and your melee attacks deal an extra
2d6 Radiant damage on a hit.

In addition, immediately after you take damage
from a creature you can see within 60 feet of your-
self, you can take a Reaction to force the creature to
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
the creature has the Blinded condition until the end
of your next turn.

FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT
Level 4 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a leather strap)
Duration: 1 hour

You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the
target's movement is unaffected by Difficult Terrain,
and spells and other magical effects can neither re-
duce the target's Speed nor cause the target to have
the Paralyzed or Restrained conditions. The target
also has a Swim Speed equal to its Speed.

In addition, the target can spend 5 feet of move-
ment to automatically escape from nonmagical
restraints, such as manacles or a creature imposing
the Grappled condition on it.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 4.

FRIENDS
Enchantment Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 10 feet

Components: S, M (some makeup)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You magically emanate a sense of friendship toward
one creature you can see within range. The target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have
the Charmed condition for the duration. The tar-
get succeeds automatically if it isn’t a Humanoid, if
you're fighting it, or if you have cast this spell on it
within the past 24 hours.

 
  
 
   

_ Gaszous Form

i vel 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch

‘Spell ends early if the target takes damage

u make an attack roll, deal damage, or force
to make a saving throw. When the spell

¢ target knows it was Charmed by you.

Components: V, S, M (a bit of gauze)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

A willing creature you touch shape-shifts, along
with everything it's wearing and carrying, into

a misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends on
the target if it drops to O Hit Points or if it takes a
Magic action to end the spell on itself.

While in this form, the target's only method
of movement is a Fly Speed of 10 feet, and it can
hover. The target can enter and occupy the space
of another creature. The target has Resistance to
Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing damage; it has
Immunity to the Prone condition; and it has Ad-
vantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws. The target can pass through narrow
openings, but it treats liquids as though they were
solid surfaces.

The target can't talk or manipulate objects, and
any objects it was carrying or holding can't be
dropped, used, or otherwise interacted with. Fi-
nally, the target can't attack or cast spells.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 3.

GATE
Level 9 Conjuration (Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 5,000+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space
you can see within range to a precise location on a
different plane of existence. The portal is a circular
opening, which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diam-
eter. You can orient the portal in any direction you
choose. The portal lasts for the duration, and the
portal's destination is visible through it.

The portal has a front and a back on each plane
where it appears. Travel through the portal is possi-
ble only by moving through its front. Anything that
does so is instantly transported to the other plane,
appearing in the unoccupied space nearest to the
portal.

CHAPTER7|SPELLS | ayy

278

Otto tHE BARD) CASTS GATE TO lage
PORTAL TO THE OUTLANDS.

P eee Bg | Ses
Pane AACS gee, : é ee

Deities and other planar rulers can prevent por-
tals created by this spell from opening in their pres-
ence or anywhere within their domains.

When you cast this spell, you can speak the name
of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nick-
name doesn’t work). If that creature is on a plane
other than the one you are on, the portal opens
next to the named creature and transports it to the

nearest unoccupied space on your side of the portal.

You gain no special power over the creature, and it
is free to act as the DM deems appropriate. It might
leave, attack you, or help you.

GEAS
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin,
Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 30 days

You give a verbal command to a creature that you
can see within range, ordering it to carry out some
service or refrain from an action or a course of ac-
tivity as you decide. The target must succeed on a
Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed condi-
tion for the duration. The target automatically suc-
ceeds if it can't understand your command.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

 

 

While Charmed, the creature takes 5d10 Psychic
damage if it acts in a manner directly counter to
your command, It takes this damage no more than
once each day.

You can issue any command you choose, short
of an activity that would result in certain death.
Should you issue a suicidal command, the spell ends,

A Remove Curse, Greater Restoration, or Wish spell
ends this spell.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level
7 or 8 spell slot, the duration is 365 days. If you use
a level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until it is ended by
one of the spells mentioned above.

GENTLE REPOSE
Level 2 Necromancy (Cleric, Paladin, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (2 Copper Pieces, which the
spell consumes)

Duration: 10 days

You touch a corpse or other remains. For the dura-
tion, the target is protected from decay and can't
become Undead.

The spell also effectively extends the time limit on
raising the target from the dead, since days spent
under the influence of tiiis spell don’t count against
the time limit of speils sich as Raise Dead.

 

GIANT INSECT
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You summon a giant centipede, spider, or wasp
(chosen when you cast the spell). It manifests in an
unoccupied space you can see within range and uses
the Giant Insect stat block. The form you choose
determines certain details in its stat block. The
creature disappears when it drops to O Hit Points or
when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies, In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It

  
     
         
       
     
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 

  

GIANT INSECT
Large Beast, Unaligned

AC 11 + the spell’s level

HP 30 + 10 for each spell level

Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (Wasp only)

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE

Str 17 +3 +3 Dex13 +1 +1 ConlS +2 +2
Int 4 -3 -3 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHaA3 -4 -4

       

  

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)

TRAITS

Spider Climb. The insect can climb difficult surfaces,
including along ceilings, without needing to make an
ability check.

ACTIONS

Multiattack. The insect makes a number of attacks
equal to half this spell’s level (round down).

| Poison Jab. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell
attack modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d6 + 3 plus the spell’s
level Piercing damage plus 1d4 Poison damage.

Web Bolt (Spider Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus
equals your spell attack modifier, range 60 ft. Hit: 1d10
+ 3 plus the spell's level Bludgeoning damage, and the
target's Speed is reduced to 0 until the start of the in-
sect's next turn.

BONUS Ac iiONS

Venomous ‘sew (Centipede Only). Constitution Saving

Throw: Your ~pell save DC, one creature the insect can

see within is feet. Failure: The target has the Poisoned

condition wrtsi the start of the insect’s next turn.
Sse

obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell’s level in the stat block.

GLIBNESS

Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: 1 hour

Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma
check, you can replace the number you roll with a
15. Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that
would determine if you are telling the truth indi-
cates that you are being truthful.

GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY
Level 6 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a glass bead)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

An immobile, shimmering barrier appears in a 10-
foot Emanation around you and remains for the
duration.

Any spell of level 5 or lower cast from outside the
barrier can't affect anything within it. Such a spell
can target creatures and objects within the barrier,
but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the
area within the barrier is excluded from areas of
effect created by such spells.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The barrier blocks
spells of 1 level higher for each spell slot level
above 6.

GLYPH OF WARDING
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 200+
GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled or triggered

You inscribe a glyph that later unleashes a magical
effect. You inscribe it either on a surface (such as a
table or a section of floor) or within an object that
can be closed (such as a book or chest) to conceal
the glyph. The glyph can cover an area no larger

- CHAPTER7|SPELLS oq

280 —

than 10 feet in diameter. If the surface or object is
moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this
spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends without
being triggered.

The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your
spell save DC to notice.

When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger
and choose whether it's an explosive rune or a spell
glyph, as explained below.

Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the glyph
when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a
surface, common triggers include touching or step-
ping on the glyph, removing another object cover-
ing it, or approaching within a certain distance of it.
For glyphs inscribed within an object, common trig-
gers include opening that object or seeing the glyph.
Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.

You can refine the trigger so that only creatures
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set
conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph,
such as those who say a certain password.

Explosive Rune. When triggered, the glyph erupts
with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius Sphere
centered on the glyph. Each creature in the area
makes a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes
5d8 Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage
(your choice when you create the glyph) on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.

Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of
level 3 or lower in the glyph by casting it as part of
creating the glyph. The spell must target a single
creature or an area. The spell being stored has no
immediate effect when cast in this way.

When the glyph is triggered, the stored spell takes
effect. If the spell has a target, it targets the crea-
ture that triggered the glyph. If the spell affects an
area, the area is centered on that creature. If the
spell summons Hostile creatures or creates harmful
objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to
the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires Con-
centration, it lasts until the end of its full duration.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of an
explosive rune increases by 1d8 for each spell slot
level above 3. If you create a spell glyph, you can
store any spell of up to the same level as the spell
slot you use for the Glyph of Warding.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

GOODBERRY

Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a sprig of mistletoe)
Duration: 24 hours

Ten berries appear in your hand and are infused
with magic for the duration. A creature can takea
Bonus Action to eat one berry. Eating a berry re-
stores 1 Hit Point, and the berry provides enough
nourishment to sustain a creature for one day.
Uneaten berries disappear when the spell ends.

GRASPING VINE
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You conjure a vine that sprouts from a surface in
an unoccupied space that you can see within range,
The vine lasts for the duration.

Make a melee spell attack against a creature
within 30 feet of the vine. On a hit, the target takes
4d8 Bludgeoning damage and is pulled up to 30 feet
toward the vine; if the target is Huge or smaller,
it has the Grappled condition (escape DC equal to
your spell save DC). The vine can grapple only one
creature at a time, and you can cause the vine to re-
lease a Grappled creature (no action required).

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can
repeat the attack against a creature within 30 feet
of the vine.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The number of
creatures the vine can grapple increases by one for
each spell slot level above 4.

 

GREASE
Level 1 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of pork rind or butter)
Duration: 1 minute

Nonflammable grease covers the ground in a 10-foot
square centered on a point within range and turns it
into Difficult Terrain for the duration.

When the grease appears, each creature stand-
ing in its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw or have the Prone condition. A creature that
enters the area or ends its turn there must also suc-
ceed on that save or fai! Prone.

'
A HALFLING CLERIC CASTSEGUARDIANIOR FAITH TC
FENO ta NaN ol exe

 

GREATER INVISIBILITY
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un-
til the spell ends.

GREATER RESTORATION
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a creature and magically remove one of
the following effects from it:

- 1 Exhaustion level
+ The Charmed or Petrified condition

Pe Tae,

we,

 

- Acurse, including the target’s Attunement to a
cursed magic item

+ Any reduction to one of the target's ability scores

- Any reduction to the target's Hit Point maximum

GUARDIAN OF FAITH
Level 4 Conjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 8 hours

A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for
the duration in an unoccupied space that you can
see within range. The guardian occupies that space
and is invulnerable, and it appears in a form appro-
priate for your deity or pantheon.

Any enemy that moves to a space within 10 feet of
the guardian for the first time on a turn or starts its
turn there makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking
20 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one. The guardian vanishes
when it has dealt a total of 60 damage.

AY .ePreDp 9.) eourta: fxs

GUARDS AND WARDS
Level 6 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: } hour

Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a silver rod worth 10+ GP)

Duration: 24 hours

You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square
feet of floor space. The warded area can be up to
20 feet tall, and you shape it as one 5O-foot square,
one hundred 5-foot squares that are contiguous, or
twenty-five 10-foot squares that are contiguous.

When you cast this spell, you can specify indi-
viduals that are unaffected by the spell’s effects.
You can also specify a password that, when spoken
aloud within 5 feet of the warded area, makes the
speaker immune to its effects.

The spell creates the effects below within the
warded area. Dispel Magic has no effect on Guards
and Wards itself, but each of the following effects
can be dispelled. If all four are dispelled, Guards and
Wards ends. If you cast the spell every day for 365
days on the same area, the spell thereafter lasts un-
til all its effects are dispelled.

Corridors. Fog fills all the warded corridors, mak-
ing them Heavily Obscured. In addition, at each
intersection or branching passage offering a choice
of direction, there is a 50 percent chance that a
creature other than you believes it is going in the
opposite direction from the one it chooses.

Doors. All doors in the warded area are magically
locked, as if sealed by the Arcane Lock spell. In addi-
tion, you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion
to make them appear as plain sections of wall.

Stairs. Webs fill all stairs in the warded area from
top to bottom, as in the Web spell. These strands
regrow in 10 minutes if they are destroyed while
Guards and Wards lasts.

Other Spell Effect. Place one of the following magi-
cal effects within the warded area:

+ Dancing Lights in four corridors, with a simple pro-
gram that the lights repeat as long as Guards and
Wards lasts

+ Magic Mouth in two locations

- Stinking Cloud in two locations (the vapors return
within 10 minutes if dispersed while Guards and
Wards lasts)

+ Gust of Wind in one corridor or room (the wind
blows continuously while the spell lasts)

+ Suggestion in one 5-foot square; any creature
that enters that square receives the suggestion

mentally

CHAPTEO 7! epriie

GUIDANCE

Divination Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Component: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You touch a willing creature and choose a skill. U
til the spell ends, the creature adds 1d4 to any ee
ity check using the chosen skill.

GUIDING BOLT
Level I Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round

You hurl a bolt of light toward a creature within
range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target
On a hit, it takes 4d6 Radiant damage, and the next
attack roll made against it before the end of your
next turn has Advantage.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

GusT OF WIND
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a legume seed)
Duration: Concentration, up to 7 minute

A Line of strong wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide
blasts from you in a direction you choose for the
duration. Each creature in the Line must succeed on
a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away
from you in a direction following the Line. A crea-
ture that ends its turn in the Line must make the
same save.

Any creature in the Line must spend 2 feet of
movement for every | foot it moves when moving
closer to you.

The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extin-
guishes candles and similar unprotected flames in
the area. It causes protected flames, such as those
of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent
chance to extinguish them.

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can
change the direction in which the Line blasts from
you.

 

HAIL OF 1 HORNS

Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a creature with a Ranged weapon

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

As you hit the creature, this spell creates a rain
of thorns that sprouts from your Ranged weapon
or ammunition. The target of the attack and each
creature within 5 feet of it make a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 1d10 Piercing damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 1.

HALLOW
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: 24 hours

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (incense worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

You touch a point and infuse an area around it with
holy or unholy power. The area can have a radius up
to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes
an area already under the effect of Hallow. The af-
fected area has the following effects.

Hallowed Ward. Choose any of these creature
types: Aberration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend,
or Undead. Creatures of the chosen types can't
willingly enter the area, and any creature that is
possessed by or that has the Charmed or Fright-
ened condition from such creatures isn’t possessed,
Charmed, or Frightened by them while in the area.

Extra Effect. You bind an extra effect to the area
from the list below:

Courage. Creatures of any types you choose can't
gain the Frightened condition while in the area.

Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as
well as magical light created by spells of a level
lower than this spell, can’t illuminate the area.

Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical Dark-
ness created by spells of a level lower than this
spell can’t extinguish the light.

Peaceful Rest. Dead bodies interred in the area
can't be turned into Undead.

Extradimensional Interference. Creatures of any
types you choose can't enter or exit the area using
teleportation or inberplatiay travel.

Fear. Creatures of any t you
Frightened condition vhile ein n the

  
  
   

?e. No sound can emanate from within the
and no sound can reach into it.
gues. Creatures of any types you choose can
communicate with any other creature in the area
even if they don't share a common language.
Vulnerability. Creatures of any types you choose
have Vulnerability to one damage type of your
choice while in the area.

HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN

Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: 300 feet

Components: V, S, M (a mushroom)
Duration: 24 hours

You make natural terrain in a 150-foot Cube in
range look, sound, and smell like another sort of
natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be
made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some
other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be
made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like
a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and
smooth road. Manufactured structures, equipment,
and creatures within the area aren't changed.
The tactile characteristics of the terrain are un-
changed, so creatures entering the area are likely
to notice the illusion. If the difference isn't obvious
by touch, a creature examining the illusion can take
the Study action to make an Intelligence (Investiga-
tion) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve
it. If a creature discerns that the terrain is illusory, ;
the creature sees a vague image superimposed on é
the real terrain. at
é

   
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

~~ - . Oo

HARM

Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

284

HASTE

Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Choose a willing creature that you can see within
range. Until the spell ends, the target's Speed is
doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to Armor Class, it has
Advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains
an additional action on each of its turns. That ac-
tion can be used to take only the Attack (one attack
only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Utilize action.

When the spell ends, the target is Incapacitated
and has a Speed of O until the end of its next turn,
as a wave of lethargy washes over it.

HEAL

Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

Choose a creature that you can see within range.
Positive energy washes through the target, restor-
ing 70 Hit Points. This spell also ends the Blinded,
Deafened, and Poisoned conditions on the target.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 10 for each spell slot level above 6.

HEALING WorD
Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

A creature of your choice that you can see within
range regains Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 1.

HEAT METAL

Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a piece of iron and a flame)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1] minute

Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a
metal weapon or a suit of Heavy or Medium metal

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

armor, that you can see within range. You cause

the object to glow red-hot. Any creature in Physical
contact with the object takes 2d8 Fire damage when
you cast the spell. Until the spell ends, you can take
a Bonus Action on each of your later turns to deal
this damage again if the object is within range.

If a creature is holding or wearing the object and
takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed
on a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if
it can. If it doesn’t drop the object, it has Disadvan-
tage on attack rolls and ability checks until the start
of your next turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.

HELLISH REBUKE
Level 1 Evocation (Warlock)

Casting Time: Reaction, which you take in response
to taking damage from a creature that you can see
within 60 feet of yourself

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

The creature that damaged you is momentarily sur-
rounded by green flames. It makes a Dexterity sav-
ing throw, taking 2d10 Fire damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 1.

HEROES’ FEAST
Level 6 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted bowl worth
1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

You conjure a feast that appears on a surface in
an unoccupied 10-foot Cube next to you. The feast
takes 1 hour to consume and disappears at the end
of that time, and the beneficial effects don't set in
until this hour is over. Up to twelve creatures can
partake of the feast.

A creature that partakes gains several benefits,
which last for 24 hours. The creature has Resis-
tance to Poison damage, and it has Immunity to the
Frightened and Poisoned conditions. Its Hit Point
maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the
same number of Hit Points.

A SPELL [TEROES FEAST PREPARES

OVENTURERERS FOR GREATNESS.

HEROISM
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A willing creature you touch is imbued with brav-
ery. Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to
the Frightened condition and gains Temporary Hit
Points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at
the start of each of its turns.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

HEX
Level 1 Enchantment (Warlock)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (the petrified eye of a newt)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You place a curse on a creature that you can see
within range. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra
1d6 Necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit

 

it with an attack roll. Also, choose one ability when
you cast the spell. The target has Disadvantage on
ability checks made with the chosen ability.

If the target drops to O Hit Points before this spell
ends, you can take a Bonus Action on a later turn to
curse a new creature.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 2 (up to
4 hours), 3-4 (up to 8 hours), or 5+ (24 hours).

HOLD MONSTER

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Choose a creature that you can see within range.
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At
the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 5.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

86

HOLD PERSON
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer,
Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Choose a Humanoid that you can see within range.
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At
the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target
one additional Humanoid for each spell slot level
above 2.

Hoty AURA
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a reliquary worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

For the duration, you emit an aura in a 30-foot Em-
anation. While in the aura, creatures of your choice

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

AN AASIMAR WARLOCK EXPOSES FOES TO THE
ALL-CONSUMING [TUNTER OF [TADAR.

 

have Advantage on all saving throws, and other

creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls against
them. In addition, when a Fiend or an Undead hits
an affected creature with a melee attack roll, the at-
tacker must succeed on a Constitution saving throw
or have the Blinded condition until the end of its
next turn.

HUNGER OF HADAR
Level 3 Conjuration (Warlock)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pickled tentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You open a gateway to the Far Realm, a region in-
fested with unspeakable horrors. A 20-foot-radius
Sphere of Darkness appears, centered on a point
with range and lasting for the duration. The Sphere
is Difficult Terrain, and it is filled with strange whis-
pers and slurping noises, which can be heard up to
30 feet away. No light, magica! or otherwise, can il-
luminate the area, and creatures fully within it have
the Blinded condition.

Any creature that starts its tury. in the area takes
2d6 Cold damage. Any creature ifat ends its turn

there must «icceed on a Dexterity saving throw or
take 2d6 Acid damage from otherworldly tentacles.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold or Acid
damage (your choice) increases by 1d6 for each spell
slot level above 3.

HuUNTER’S MARK

Level 1 Divination (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 90 feet

Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You magically mark one creature you can see
within range as your quarry. Until the spell ends,
you deal an extra 1d6 Force damage to the target
whenever you hit it with an attack roll. You also
have Advantage on any Wisdom (Perception or Sur-
vival) check you make to find it.

If the target drops to O Hit Points before this spell
ends, you can take a Bonus Action to move the mark
to a new creature you can see within range.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 3-4 (up
to 8 hours) or 5+ (up to 24 hours).

HyPpNOTIC PATTERN
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: S, M (a pinch of confetti)
Duration: Concentration, up to ] minute

You create a twisting pattern of colors in a 30-foot
Cube within range. The pattern appears for a mo-
ment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who
can see the pattern must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Charmed condition for
the duration. While Charmed, the creature has the
Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0.

The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes
any damage or if someone else uses an action to
shake the creature out of its stupor.

IcE KNIFE
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: S, M (a drop of water or a piece of ice)
Duration: Instantaneous

You create 2 shard of ice and fling it at one creature
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against
the target. (-. = hit, the target takes 1d10 Piercing
damage. Hit «-. :niss, the shard then explodes. The

in ies

   

wo Ice Knire

“V6

   

target and each creature within 5 feet of it must

succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6
Cold damage.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold damage
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

IczE STORM

Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 300 feet

Components: V, S, M (a mitten)

Duration: Instantaneous

Hail falls in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder
centered on a point within range. Each creature
in the Cylinder makes a Dexterity saving throw. A
creature takes 2d10 Bludgeoning damage and 4d6
Cold damage on a failed save or half as much dam-
age on a successful one.

Hailstones turn ground in the Cylinder into Diffi-
cult Terrain until the end of your next turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Bludgeoning
damage increases by 1d10 for each spell slot level
above 4.

IDENTIFY
Level I Divination (Bard, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a pearl worth 100+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous

You touch an object throughout the spell’s casting.
If the object is a magic item or some other magi-
cal object, you learn its properties and how to use
them, whether it requires Attunement, and how
many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any
ongoing spells are affecting the item and what they
are. If the item was created by a spell, you learn that
spell's name.

If you instead touch a creature throughout the
casting, you learn which ongoing spells, if any, are
currently affecting it.

CHAPTER7|SPELLS 287.

 

ILLusORY SCRIPT
Level I Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual

Range: Touch
Components: S, M (ink worth 10+ GP, which the spell

consumes)
Duration: 10 days

You write on parchment, paper, or another suitable
material and imbue it with an illusion that lasts for
the duration. To you and any creatures you desig-
nate when you cast the spell, the writing appears
normal, seems to be written in your hand, and
conveys whatever meaning you intended when you
wrote the text. To all others, the writing appears as
if it were written in an unknown or magical script
that is unintelligible. Alternatively, the illusion can
alter the meaning, handwriting, and language of the
text, though the language must be one you know.

If the spell is dispelled, the original script and the
illusion both disappear.

A creature that has Truesight can read the hidden
message.

IMPRISONMENT
Level 9 Abjuration (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a statuette of the target worth
5,000+ GP)

Duration: Until dispelled

You create a magical restraint to hold a creature
that you can see within range. The target must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save,
the target is unaffected, and it is immune to this
spell for the next 24 hours. On a failed save, the
target is imprisoned. While imprisoned, the target
doesn't need to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn’t
age. Divination spells can't locate or perceive the
imprisoned target, and the target can't teleport.

Until the spell ends, the target is also affected by
one of the following effects of your choice:

Burial. The target is entombed beneath the earth in
a hollow globe of magical force that is just large
enough to contain the target. Nothing can pass
into or out of the globe.

Chaining. Chains firmly rooted in the ground hold
the target in place. The target has the Restrained
condition and can't be moved by any means.

Hedged Prison. The target is trapped in a demi-
plane that is warded against teleportation and
planar travel. The demiplane is your choice of a
labyrinth, a cage, a tower, or the like.

Minimus Containment. The target becomes Linch
tall and is trapped inside an indestructible gem-
stone or a similar object. Light can pass through
the gemstone (allowing the target to see out and
other creatures to see in), but nothing else can
pass through by any means.

Slumber. The target has the Unconscious condition
and can't be awoken.

Ending the Spell. When you cast the spell, specify
a trigger that will end it. The trigger can be as sim-
ple or as elaborate as you choose, but the DM must
agree that it has a high likelihood of happening
within the next decade. The trigger must be an ob-
servable action, such as someone making a partic-
ular offering at the temple of your god, saving your
true love, or defeating a specific monster.

A Dispel Magic spell can end the spell only if it is
cast with a level 9 spell slot, targeting either the
prison or the component used to create it.

INCENDIARY CLOUD

Level 8 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A swirling cloud of embers and smoke fills a
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on a point within
range. The cloud’s area is Heavily Obscured. It lasts
for the duration or until a strong wind (like that
created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.

When the cloud appears, each creature in it
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 10d8 Fire
damage on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one. A creature must also make
this save when the Sphere moves into its space and
when it enters the Sphere or ends its turn there. A
creature makes this save only once per turn.

The cloud moves 10 feet away from you in a direc-
tion you choose at the start of each of your turns.

INFLICT WouNDS
Level 1 Necromancy (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

A creature you touch makes a Constitution saving
throw, taking 2d10 Necrotic damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Stat. The damage in-
creases by 1d10 for each spel! slot level above 1.

ee

INSECT PLAGUE
Level 5 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 300 feet

Components: V, S, M (a locust)

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

Swarming locusts fill a 20-foot-radius Sphere
centered on a point you choose within range. The
Sphere remains for the duration, and its area is
Lightly Obscured and Difficult Terrain.

When the swarm appears, each creature in it
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 4d10
Piercing damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one. A creature also makes
this save when it enters the spell’s area for the first
time on a turn or ends its turn there. A creature
makes this save only once per turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by Id10 for each spell slot level above 5.

WITH HER SPELL, UALLARZIS STORM OF RADIANCE, THE
WARLOCK JALLARTI MAKES VROCKS REGRET LEAVING THE ABYSS

 

INVISIBILITY
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (an eyelash in gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un-
til the spell ends. The spell ends early immediately
after the target makes an attack roll, deals damage,
or casts a spell.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 2.

JALLARZI’s STORM OF RADIANCE
Level 5 Evocation (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Component: V, S, M (a pinch of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You unleash a storm of flashing light and raging
thunder in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylin-
der centered on a point you can see within range.
While in this area, creatures have the Blinded and

CHAPTER7|SPELLS , 289

.
_ aE

Deafened conditions, and they can't cast spells with
a Verbal component. ¥

When the storm appears, each creature in it
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 2410
Radiant damage and 2d10 Thunder damage on a
failed save or half as much damage on a successful
one. A creature also makes this save when it enters
the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or ends
its turn there. A creature makes this save only once
per turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Radiant and
Thunder damage increase by 1d10 for each spell slot
level above 5.

JuMP

Level 1 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
- Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Touch

Component: V, S, M (a grasshopper's hind leg)

Duration: 1 minute

You touch a willing creature. Once on each of its
turns until the spell ends, that creature can jump up
to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1.

KNOCK
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Vv
Duration: Instantaneous

: Choose an object that you can see within range. The
object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of man-

= acles, a padlock, or another object that contains a

i ‘mundane or magical means that prevents access.

A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or
that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck,
or unbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only
one of them is unlocked.

“— _ Ifthe target is held shut by Arcane Lock, that spell
is. sed for 10 minutes, during which time the
target can be opened and closed.
_ When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible up
to 300 feet away, emanates from the target.

i
=

 

LEGEND LORE

Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (incense worth 250+ GP, which
the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth 504
GP each)

Duration: Instantaneous

Name or describe a famous person, place, or object.
The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of
the significant lore about that famous thing, as de-
scribed by the DM.

The lore might consist of important details, amus-
ing revelations, or even secret lore that has never
been widely known. The more information you
already know about the thing, the more precise and
detailed the information you receive is. That infor-
mation is accurate but might be couched in figura-
tive language or poetry, as determined by the DM.

If the famous thing you chose isn’t actually fa-
mous, you hear sad musical notes played on a trom-
bone, and the spell fails.

LEOMUND’S SECRET CHEST
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a chest, 3 feet by 2 feet by 2
feet, constructed from rare materials worth 5,000+
GP, and a Tiny replica of the chest made from the
same materials worth 50+ GP)

Duration: Until dispelled

You hide a chest and all its contents on the Ethereal
Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature
replica that serve as Material components for the
spell. The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of
nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).

While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane,
you can take a Magic action and touch the replica to
recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space
on the ground within 5 feet of you. You can send
the chest back to the Ethereal Plane by taking a
Magic action to touch the chest and the replica.

After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent
chance at the end of each day that the spell ends.
The spell also ends if you cast this spell again or if
the Tiny replica chest is destroyed. If the spell ends
and the larger chest is on the Ethereal Plane, the
chest remains there for you or someone else to find.

  

LEOMUND S& TINY HuT

Level 3 Evocation (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: | minute or Ritual
Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a crystal bead)
Duration: 8 hours

A 10-foot Emanation springs into existence around
you and remains stationary for the duration. The
spell fails when you cast it if the Emanation isn't big
enough to fully encapsulate all creatures in its area.

Creatures and objects within the Emanation when
you cast the spell can move through it freely. All
other creatures and objects are barred from passing
through it. Spells of level 3 or lower can't be cast
through it, and the effects of such spells can't ex-
tend into it.

The atmosphere inside the Emanation is com-
fortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside.
Until the spell ends, you can command the interior
to have Dim Light or Darkness (no action required).
The Emanation is opaque from the outside and of
any color you choose, but it's transparent from the
inside.

The spell ends early if you leave the Emanation or
if you cast it again.

i Soe tage ; Sa a “ 1 Ses
am Nap aS conn fis : mas. sf > mice
Dime Ss s

ATIUMAN Davia eases Vessec
RESTORATION TO) EASE THe SURRERING Clb

Wiahasl) nile) nie POs ease Ist cis,

   
 

LESSER RESTORATION

Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a creature and end one condition on it:
Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, or Poisoned.

LEVITATE

Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a metal spring)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

One creature or loose object of your choice that you
can see within range rises vertically up to 20 feet
and remains suspended there for the duration. The
spell can levitate an object that weighs up to 500
pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a
Constitution saving throw is unaffected.

The target can move only by pushing or pulling
against a fixed object or surface within reach (such
as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it
were climbing. You can change the target's altitude

 

 

   
 
 

by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If
you are the target, you can move up or down as part
of your move. Otherwise, you can take a Magic ac-
tion to move the target, which must remain within
the spell's range.

When the spell ends, the target floats gently to the
ground if it is still aloft.

LIGHT

Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent moss)
Duration: 1 hour

You touch one Large or smaller object that isn’t
being worn or carried by someone else. Until the
spell ends, the object sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot
radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. The
light can be colored as you like.

Covering the object with something opaque
blocks the light. The spell ends if you cast it again.

LIGHTNING ARROW
Level 3 Transmutation (Ranger)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting or missing a target with a ranged
attack using a weapon

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

As your attack hits or misses the target, the weapon
or ammunition you're using transforms into a
lightning bolt. Instead of taking any damage or
other effects from the attack, the target takes 4d8
Lightning damage on a hit or half as much damage
on a miss. Each creature within 10 feet of the target
then makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 248
Lightning damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.

_ The weapon or ammunition then returns to its

ormal form.
og Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage for
both effects of the spell increases by 1d8 for each

 

   

LIGHTNING BOLT
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur and a crystal rod)
Duration: Instantaneous

A stroke of lightning forming a 100-foot-long,
5-foot-wide Line blasts out from you in a direction
you choose. Each creature in the Line makes a Dex-
terity saving throw, taking 8d6 Lightning damage
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-
cessful one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3,

LOCATE ANIMALS OR PLANTS
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Instantaneous

Describe or name a specific kind of Beast, Plant
creature, or nonmagical plant. You learn the direc-
tion and distance to the closest creature or plant of
that kind within 5 miles, if any are present.

LOCATE CREATURE

Level 4 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

Describe or name a creature that is familiar to you.
You sense the direction to the creature's location
if that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the
creature is moving, you know the direction of its
movement.

The spell can locate a specific creature known to
you or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such
as a human or a unicorn) if you have seen such a
creature up close—within 30 feet—at least once.

If the creature you described or named is in a dif-
ferent form, such as under the effects of a Flesh to
Stone or Polymorph spell, this spell doesn’t locate the
creature,

This spell can't locate a creature if any thickness
of lead blocks a direct path betvreen you and the

 
 
  

LOCATE OvjECT 7
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,

d

Wizard) ; Action
Casting Time: Action :

Range: Self c¢ ents: V, S
Components: V, S, M (a forked twig) 7: on: 1 minute

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes ie
‘Aspectral, floating hand appears at a point you

Describe or name an object that is familiar to you. choose within range. The hand lasts for the dura-

You sense the direction to the object's location tion. The
if that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the feet wy Rae eager lle 7 3
object is in motion, you know the direction of its When you cast the spell, you can seattle canal
movement. ; ; to manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or
The spell can locate a specific object known to you container, stow or retrieve an item from an open
if you have seen it up close—within 30 feet—at least container, or pour the contents out of a vial z
once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest As a Magic action on your later turns you can
object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of control the hand thus again. As part of that action
apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon. you can move the hand up to 30 feet.
This spell can't locate an object if any thickness The hand can't attack, activate magic items, or
of lead blocks a direct path between you and the carry more than 10 pounds.
object.

MAGIC CIRCLE
LONGSTRIDER Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Wizard) Casting Time: 1 minute

Casting Time: Action Range: 10 feet
Range: Touch Components: V, S, M (salt and powdered silver worth
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt) 100+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 hour Duration: 1 hour
You touch a creature. The target's Speed increases You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall Cylinder of
by 10 feet until the spell ends. magical energy centered on a point on the ground
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one that you can see within range. Glowing runes ap-
additional creature for each spell slot level above 1. pear wherever the Cylinder intersects with the floor
or other surface.

Choose one or more of the following types of
MAGE ARMOR creatures: Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard) Undead. The circle affects a creature of the chosen :
Casting Time: Action type in the following ways:
Range: Touch + The creature can't willingly enter the Cylinder 3
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather) by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use ar
Duration: 8 hours teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it must .

first succeed on a Charisma saving throw. *, ty i
- The creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls yo
against targets within the Cylinder.

You touch a willing creature who isn’t wearing
armor. Until the spell ends, the target's base AC be-
comes 13 plus its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends

iv ifthe tareet ad : - Targets within the Cylinder can't be possessed
Me eee rere by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condition >A
from the creature. . Te
Each time you cast this spell, you can cause its eh hy

magic to operate in the reverse direction, prevent-
inga ¢ creature of the ae trac
d protecting tar

   

oar

 

A HUMAN WIZARD FENOS OFF PERIL WITH Mace ARMOR
AND THE UNERRING BOLTS OF MAGIC MISSILE.

MAGIC JAR
Level 6 Necromancy (Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a gem, crystal, or reliquary
worth 500+ GP)

Duration: Until dispelled

Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soul
leaves it and enters the container you used for the
spell's Material component. While your soul inhab-
its the container, you are aware of your surround-
ings as if you were in the container’s space. You
can't move or take Reactions. The only action you
can take is to project your soul up to 100 feet out of
the container, either returning to your living body
(and ending the spell) or attempting to possess a
Humanoid’s body.

You can attempt to possess any Humanoid within
100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded
by a Protection from Evil and Good or Magic Circle
spell can't be possessed). The target makes a Cha-
risma saving throw. On a failed save, your soul en-
ters the targ t's ew and the target's soul paces

 

target resists your efforts to possess it, and you
can't attempt to possess it again for 24 hours,

Once you possess a creature's body, you control it.
Your Hit Points, Hit Point Dice, Strength, Dexterity,
Constitution, Speed, and senses are replaced by the
creature’s. You otherwise keep your game statistics.

Meanwhile, the possessed creature's soul can per-
ceive from the container using its own senses, but it
can't move and it is Incapacitated.

While possessing a body, you can take a Magic ac-
tion to return from the host body to the container if
it is within 100 feet of you, returning the host crea-
ture’s soul to its body. If the host body dies while
you're in it, the creature dies, and you make a Cha-
risma saving throw against your own spellcasting
DC. On a success, you return to the container if it is
within 100 feet of you. Otherwise, you die.

If the container is destroyed or the spell ends,
your soul returns to your body. If your body is
more than 100 feet away from you or if your body
is dead, you die. If another creature's soul is in the
container when it is destroyed, the creature's soul
returns to its body if the body is alive and within
100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies.

When the spell ends, the container is destroyed.

Macic MiSSILE

Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You create three glowing darts of magical force.
Each dart strikes a creature of your choice that
you can see within range. A dart deals 1d4 + 1 Force
damage to its target. The darts all strike simultane-
ously, and you can direct them to hit one creature
or several.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell creates
one more dart for each spell slot level above 1.

MAGIC MOUTH
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1] minute or Ritual

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 10+ GP, which
the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

You implant a message within an object in range—a
message that is uttered when a trigger condition

is met. Choose an object that you can see and that
isn’t being worn or carried by another creature.
Then speak the message, which must be 25 words or
fewer, though it can be delivered over as long as 10
minutes. Finally, determine the circumstance that
will trigger the spell to deliver your message.

When that trigger occurs, a magical mouth ap-
pears on the object and recites the message in your
voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the ob-
ject you chose has a mouth or something that looks
like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue),
the magical mouth appears there, so the words ap-
pear to come from the object's mouth. When you
cast this spell, you can have the spell end after it
delivers its message, or it can remain and repeat its
message whenever the trigger occurs.

The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you
like, though it must be based on visual or audible
conditions that occur within 30 feet of the object.
For example, you could instruct the mouth to speak
when any creature moves within 30 feet of the ob-
ject or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.

 

Macic WEAPON

Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: 1 hour

You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell
ends, that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a
+1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls. The spell
ends early if you cast it again.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The bonus in-
creases to +2 with a level 3-5 spell slot. The bonus
increases to +3 with a level 6+ spell slot.

MAJOR IMAGE

Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create the image of an object, a creature, or
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger
than a 20-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot
that you can see within range and lasts for the du-
ration. It seems real, including sounds, smells, and
temperature appropriate to the thing depicted, but
it can't deal damage or cause conditions.

If you are within range of the illusion, you can
take a Magic action to cause the image to move to
any other spot within range. As the image changes
location, you can alter its appearance so that its
movements appear natural for the image. For exam-
ple, if you create an image of a creature and move
it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be
walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to
make different sounds at different times, even mak-
ing it carry on a conversation, for example.

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to
be an illusion, for things can pass through it. A crea-
ture that takes a Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a success-
ful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for
what it is, the creature can see through the image,
and its other sensory qualities become faint to the
creature,

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell lasts until
dispelled, without requiring Concentration, if cast
with a level 4+ spell slot.

20k

Mass CuRE WOUNDS

Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

A wave of healing energy washes out from a point
you can see within range. Choose up to six crea-
tures in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on that
point. Each target regains Hit Points equal to 5d8
plus your spellcasting ability modifier.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.

Mass HEAL

Level 9 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

A flood of healing energy flows from you into
creatures around you. You restore up to 700 Hit
Points, divided as you choose among any number of
creatures that you can see within range. Creatures
healed by this spell also have the Blinded, Deafened,
and Poisoned conditions removed from them.

MASS HEALING WoRD
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see
within range regain Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by Id4 for each spell slot level above 3.

MASS SUGGESTION

Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, M (a snake's tongue)
Duration: 24 hours

You suggest a course of activity—described in no
more than 25 words—to twelve or fewer crea-
tures you can see within range that can hear and

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

understand you. The suggestion must sound achiey-
able and not involve anything that would obviously
deal damage to any of the targets or their allies. For
example, you could say, “Walk to the village down
that road, and help the villagers there harvest crops
until sunset.” Or you could say, “Now is not the time
for violence. Drop your weapons, and dance! Stop in
an hour."

Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura-
tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the
target. Each Charmed target pursues the suggestion
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can
continue for the entire duration, but if the sug-
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time,
the spell ends for a target upon completing it.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration is
longer with a spell slot of level 7 (10 days), 8 (30
days), or 9 (366 days).

MAZE
Level 8 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You banish a creature that you can see within range
into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains
there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.

The target can take a Study action to try to es-
cape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence
(Investigation) check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and
the spell ends.

When the spell ends, the target reappears in the
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the near-
est unoccupied space.

MELD INTO STONE
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: 8 hours

You step into a stone object or surface large enough
to fully contain your body, merging yourself and
your equipment with the stone for the duration.
You must touch the stone to do so. Nothing of your
presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by
nonmagical senses.

While merged with the stor :, you can’t see what
occurs outside it, and any Wisdéus (Perception)
checks you make to hear sou’: outside it are made

with Disadvantage. You remain aware of the pas-
sage of time and can cast spells on yourself while
merged in the stone. You can use 5 feet of move-
ment to leave the stone where you entered it, which
ends the spell. You otherwise can’t move.

Minor physical damage to the stone doesn't harm
you, but its partial destruction or a change in its
shape (to the extent that you no longer fit within it)
expels you and deals 6d6 Force damage to you. The
stone’s complete destruction (or transmutation into
a different substance) expels you and deals 50 Force
damage to you. If expelled, you move into an unoc-
cupied space closest to where you first entered and
have the Prone condition.

MELF’s ACID ARROW
Level 2 Evocation (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (powdered rhubarb leaf)
Duration: Instantaneous

A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a target
within range and bursts in a spray of acid. Make a
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the

 

target takes 4d4 Acid damage and 2d4 Acid damage
at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow
splashes the target with acid for half as much of the
initial damage only.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage (both
initial and later) increases by 1d4 for each spell slot
level above 2.

MENDING

Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer,
Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (two lodestones)

Duration: Instantaneous

This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object
you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves
of a broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin.
As long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot
in any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of
the former damage.

This spell can physically repair a magic item, but
it can't restore magic to such an object.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 297

MESSAGE MIND SLIVER

Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard) Enchantment Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet Range: 60 feet

Components: S, M (a copper wire) Components: Vv

Duration: 1 round Duration: 1 round

You point toward a creature within range and You try to temporarily sliver the mind of one crea-

whisper a message. The target (and only the target) ture you can see within range. The target must

hears the message and can reply in a whisper that succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or take 1d6

only you can hear. Psychic damage and subtract 1d4 from the next say-
You can cast this spell through solid objects if you ing throw it makes before the end of your next turn.

are familiar with the target and know it is beyond Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6

the barrier. Magical silence; 1 foot of stone, metal, or when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).
wood; or a thin sheet of lead blocks the spell.

MIND SPIKE

METEOR SWARM Level 2 Divination (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Level 9 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard) Casting Time: Action

Casting Time: Action Range: 120 feet

Range: 1 mile Components: S

Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

eee eee You drive a spike of psionic energy into the mind of

Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four one creature you can see within range. The target

different points you can see within range. Each makes a Wisdom saving throw, taking 3d8 Psychic

creature in a 40-foot-radius Sphere centered on damage on a failed save or half as much damage on

each of those points makes a Dexterity saving a successful one. On a failed save, you also always

throw. A creature takes 20d6 Fire damage and know the target's location until the spell ends, but

20d6 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half only while the two of you are on the same plane

as much damage on a successful one. A creature in of existence. While you have this knowledge, the

the area of more than one fiery Sphere is affected target can’t become hidden from you, and if it has

only once. the Invisible condition, it gains no benefit from that
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or car- condition against you.

ried also takes the damage if it's in the spell's area, Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-

and the object starts burning if it's flammable. creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.

MIND BLANK MINOR ILLUSION

Level 8 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard) Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S Components: S, M (a bit of fleece)

Duration: 24 hours Duration: ] minute

Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch You create a sound or an image of an object within

has Immunity to Psychic damage and the Charmed range that lasts for the duration. See the descrip-

condition. The target is also unaffected by anything tions below for the effects of each. The illusion ends

that would sense its emotions or alignment, read its if you cast this spell again.

thoughts, or magically detect its location, and no If a creature takes a Study action to examine the

spell—not even Wish—can gather information about sound or image, the creature can determine that it

the target, observe it remotely, or control its mind. is an illusion with a successfu! intelligence (Investi-

gation) check against your spel! save DC. Ifa crea-
ture discerns the illusion for v.}. «¢ it is, the illusion
becomes faint to the creature

298 CHAPTER 7| SPELLS

Sound. If you create a sound, its volume can
range from a whisper to a scream. It can be your
yoice, someone else's voice, a lion's roar, a beating of
drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound
continues unabated throughout the duration, or you
can make discrete sounds at different times before
the spell ends.

Image. If you create an image of an object—such
as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chest—it
must be no larger than a 5-foot Cube. The image
can’t create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory
effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it
to be an illusion, since things can pass through it.

MIRAGE ARCANE
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Sight
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 days

You make terrain in an area up to 1 mile square
look, sound, smell, and even feel like some other
sort of terrain. Open fields or a road could be made
to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other
rough or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to
seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle
slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth
road.

Similarly, you can alter the appearance of struc-
tures or add them where none are present. The spell
doesn't disguise, conceal, or add creatures.

The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and
olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into
Difficult Terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede
movement through the area. Any piece of the illu-
sory terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed
from the spell's area disappears immediately.

Creatures with Truesight can see through the illu-
sion to the terrain’s true form; however, all other el-
ements of the illusion remain, so while the creature
is aware of the illusion’s presence, the creature can
still physically interact with the illusion.

MIRROR IMAGE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute

Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your
space. Until tie spell ends, the duplicates move with
you and mimic your actions, shifting position so it’s
impossible to track which image is real.

. mer: _
— ili oe . #

Vp ee
Each a creature hits you with an attack roll

during the spell's duration, roll a d6 for each of your
remaining duplicates. If any of the d6s rolls a 3 or
higher, one of the duplicates is hit instead of you,
and the duplicate is destroyed. The duplicates other-
wise ignore all other damage and effects. The spell
ends when all three duplicates are destroyed.

A creature is unaffected by this spell if it has the
Blinded condition, Blindsight, or Truesight.

MISLEAD

Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You gain the Invisible condition at the same time
that an illusory double of you appears where you
are standing. The double lasts for the duration, but
the invisibility ends immediately after you make an
attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell.

As a Magic action, you can move the illusory
double up to twice your Speed and make it gesture,
speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It is
intangible and invulnerable.

You can see through its eyes and hear through its
ears as if you were located where it is.

MISTY STEP
Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.

MopiFy MEMORY

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You attempt to reshape another creature's mem-
ories. One creature that you can see within range
makes a Wisdom saving throw. If you are fighting
the creature, it has Advantage on the save. Ona
failed save, the target has the Charmed condition
for the duration. While Charmed in this way, the
target also has the Incapacitated condition and is
unaware of its surroundings, though it can hear

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS f as5

390

you. If it takes any damage or is targeted by another
spell, this spell ends, and no memories are modified.

While this charm lasts, you can affect the target's
memory of an event that it experienced within the
last 24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 min-
utes. You can permanently eliminate all memory of
the event, allow the target to recall the event with
perfect clarity, change its memory of the event's de-
tails, or create a memory of some other event.

You must speak to the target to describe how its
memories are affected, and it must be able to under-
stand your language for the modified memories to
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of
your description. If the spell ends before you finish
describing the modified memories, the creature's
memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified mem-
ories take hold when the spell ends.

A modified memory doesn't necessarily affect
how a creature behaves, particularly if the mem-
ory contradicts the creature's natural inclinations,
alignment, or beliefs. An illogical modified memory,
such as a false memory of how much the creature
enjoyed swimming in acid, is dismissed as a bad
dream. The DM might deem a modified memory too
nonsensical to affect a creature.

A Remove Curse or Greater Restoration spell cast on
the target restores the creature's true memory.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can alter the
target's memories of an event that took place up to 7
days ago (level 6 spell slot), 30 days ago (level 7 spell
slot), 365 days ago (level 8 spell slot), or any time in
the creature's past (level 9 spell slot).

MOONBEAM
Level 2 Evocation (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a moonseed leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A silvery beam of pale light shines down ina
5-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a
point within range. Until the spell ends, Dim Light
fills the Cylinder, and you can take a Magic action
on later turns to move the Cylinder up to 60 feet.
When the Cylinder appears, each creature in it
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
save, a creature takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and if
the creature is shape-shifted (as a result of the Poly-
morph spell, for example), it reverts to its true form
and can't shape-shift until it leaves the Cylinder.
On a successful save, a creature takes half as much
damage only. A creature also makes this save when
the spells area moves into its space and when it

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

enters the spell’s area or ends its turn there. A crea-
ture makes this save only once per turn,

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 2,

MORDENKAINEN’S FAITHFUL Hounpb
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a silver whistle)
Duration: 8 hours

You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied
space that you can see within range. The hound
remains for the duration or until the two of you are
more than 300 feet apart from each other.

No one but you can see the hound, and it is in-
tangible and invulnerable. When a Small or larger
creature comes within 30 feet of it without first
speaking the password that you specify when you
cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The
hound has Truesight with a range of 30 feet.

At the start of each of your turns, the hound at-
tempts to bite one enemy within 5 feet of it. That
enemy must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or
take 4d8 Force damage.

On your later turns, you can take a Magic action
to move the hound up to 30 feet.

MORDENKAINEN’S MAGNIFICENT MANSION
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 300 feet

Components: V, S, M (a miniature door worth 15+ GP)
Duration: 24 hours

You conjure a shimmering door in range that lasts
for the duration. The door leads to an extradimen-
sional dwelling and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall.
You and any creature you designate when you cast
the spell can enter the extradimensional dwelling
as long as the door remains open. You can open or
close it (no action required) if you are within 30
feet of it. While closed, the door is imperceptible.

Beyond the door is a magnificent foyer with
numerous chambers beyond. The dwelling’s atmo-
sphere is clean, fresh, and warm.

You can create any floor plan you like for the
dwelling, but it can't exceed 50 contiguous 10-foot
Cubes. The place is furnished and decorated as you
choose. It contains sufficient food to serve a nine-
course banquet for up to 100 people. Furnishings
and other objects created by this spell dissipate into
smoke if removed from it.

THE WIZARD MORDENKAINEN WELCOMES
GUESTS TO HIS MAGICAL DWELLING,
MORDENKAINEN S MAGNIFICENT MANSION.

A staff of 100 near-transparent servants attends
all who enter. You determine the appearance of
these servants and their attire. They are invulner-
able and obey your commands. Each servant can
perform tasks that a human could perform, but they
can't attack or take any action that would directly
harm another creature. Thus the servants can fetch
things, clean, mend, fold clothes, light fires, serve
food, pour wine, and so on. The servants can't leave
the dwelling.

When the spell ends, any creatures or objects left
inside the extradimensional space are expelled into
the unoccupied spaces nearest to the entrance.

MORDENKAINEN’S PRIVATE SANCTUM
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a thin sheet of lead)
Duration: 24 hours

You make an area within range magically secure.
The area is a Cube that can be as small as 5 feet to
as large as 100 feet on each side, The spell lasts for
the duration.

 

When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of
security the spell provides, choosing any of the fol-
lowing properties:

- Sound can't pass through the barrier at the edge
of the warded area.

- The barrier of the warded area appears dark and

foggy, preventing vision (including Darkvision)

through it.

Sensors created by Divination spells can’t appear

inside the protected area or pass through the bar-

rier at its perimeter.

Creatures in the area can't be targeted by Divina-

tion spells.

- Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded
area.

- Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.

Casting this spell on the same spot every day for
365 days makes the spell last until dispelled.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can increase
the size of the Cube by 100 feet for each spell slot
level above 4.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS A Zor

    

MORDENKAINEN’S SWORD

Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a miniature sword worth
250+ GP)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1] minute

You create a spectral sword that hovers within
range. It lasts for the duration.

When the sword appears, you make a melee spell
attack against a target within 5 feet of the sword.
On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal to
4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.

On your later turns, you can take a Bonus Action
to move the sword up to 30 feet to a spot you can
see and repeat the attack against the same target or
a different one.

MOVE EARTH

Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a miniature shovel)
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours

Choose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on
a side within range. You can reshape dirt, sand, or
clay in the area in any manner you choose for the
duration. You can raise or lower the area's eleva-
tion, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall,
or form a pillar. The extent of any such changes
can't exceed half the area's largest dimension. For
example, if you affect a 40-foot square, you can
create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower the
square's elevation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up
to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for
these changes to complete. Because the terrain's
transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area
can't usually be trapped or injured by the ground’s
movement.

At the end of every 10 minutes you spend concen-
trating on the spell, you can choose a new area of
terrain to affect within range.

This spell can’t manipulate natural stone or stone
construction. Rocks and structures shift to accom-
modate the new terrain. If the way you shape the
terrain would make a structure unstable, it might
c

‘Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along
with it
ie

Cold damage on failed save o» !:aif as much damage

NONDETECTION

Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Ranger, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust worth
25+ GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: 8 hours

For the duration, you hide a target that you touch
from Divination spells. The target can be a willing
creature, or it can be a place or an object no larger
than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can't

be targeted by any Divination spell or perceived
through magical scrying sensors.

NyYSsTUL'’s MAGIC AURA
Level 2 Illusion (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a small square of silk)
Duration: 24 hours

With a touch, you place an illusion on a willing
creature or an object that isn’t being worn or car-
ried. A creature gains the Mask effect below, and an
object gains the False Aura effect below. The effect
lasts for the duration. If you cast the spell on the
same target every day for 30 days, the illusion lasts
until dispelled.

Mask (Creature). Choose a creature type other
than the target's actual type. Spells and other magi-
cal effects treat the target as if it were a creature of
the chosen type.

False Aura (Object). You change the way the target
appears to spells and magical effects that detect
magical auras, such as Detect Magic. You can make
a nonmagical object appear magical, make a magic
item appear nonmagical, or change the object's aura
so that it appears to belong to a school of magic you
choose.

OTILUKE'S FREEZING SPHERE
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 300 feet

Components: V, S, M (a miniature crystal sphere)
Duration: Instantaneous

A frigid globe streaks from you to a point of
your choice within range, where it explodes in a
60-foot-radius Sphere. Each creature in that area
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d6

  

   

If the glove strikes a body of water, it freezes the
water to a depth of 6 inches over an area 30 feet
square. This ice lasts for 1 minute. Creatures that
were swimming on the surface of frozen water are
trapped in the ice and have the Restrained condi-
tion. A trapped creature can take an action to make
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save
DC to break free.

You can refrain from firing the globe after com-
pleting the spell’s casting. If you do so, a globe about
the size of a sling bullet, cool to the touch, appears
in your hand, At any time, you or a creature you
give the globe to can throw the globe (to a range of
40 feet) or hurl it with a sling (to the sling’s normal
range). It shatters on impact, with the same effect
as a normal casting of the spell. You can also set the
globe down without shattering it. After 1 minute, if
the globe hasn't already shattered, it explodes.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 6.

OTILUKE’S RESILIENT SPHERE
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a glass sphere)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A shimmering sphere encloses a Large or smaller
creature or object within range. An unwilling crea-
ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or
be enclosed for the duration.

Nothing—not physical objects, energy, or other
spell effects—can pass through the barrier, in or out,
though a creature in the sphere can breathe there.
The sphere is immune to all damage, and a creature
or object inside can't be damaged by attacks or ef-
fects originating from outside, nor can a creature
inside the sphere damage anything outside it.

The sphere is weightless and just large enough to
contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed
creature can take an action to push against the
sphere’s walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half
the creature's Speed. Similarly, the globe can be
picked up and moved by other creatures.

A Disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it
without harming anything inside.

 

a

= $$$.

Orro’s IRRESISTIBLE DANCE
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

One creature that you can see within range must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save,
the target dances comically until the end of its next
turn, during which it must spend all its movement
to dance in place.

On a failed save, the target has the Charmed con-
dition for the duration. While Charmed, the target
dances comically, must use all its movement to
dance in place, and has Disadvantage on Dexterity
saving throws and attack rolls, and other creatures
have Advantage on attack rolls against it. On each
of its turns, the target can take an action to collect
itself and repeat the save, ending the spell on itself
on a success.

PASSWALL
Level 5 Transmutation (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sesame seeds)
Duration: 1 hour

A passage appears at a point that you can see ona
wooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall,
ceiling, or floor) within range and lasts for the dura-
tion. You choose the opening’s dimensions: up to 5
feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage
creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.

When the opening disappears, any creatures or
objects still in the passage created by the spell are
safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the
surface on which you cast the spell.

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 

eee ee
PASS WITHOUT TRACE

Level 2 Abjuration (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action i
Range: Self =

Components: V, S, M (ashes from burned mistletoe)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour as

You radiate a concealing aura in a 30-foo'
tion for the duration. While in the aura

each creature you choose have a +10 bonus to
terity (Stealth) checks and leave no tracks.

  
 
 
  
 

Se 2 nes ie i

     

PHANTASMAL FORCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You attempt to craft an illusion in the mind of

a creature you can see within range. The target
makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed
save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or
other phenomenon that is no larger than a 10-foot
Cube and that is perceivable only to the target for
the duration. The phantasm includes sound, tem-
perature, and other stimuli.

The target can take a Study action to examine the
phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds,
the target realizes that the phantasm is an illusion,
and the spell ends.

While affected by the spell, the target treats the
phantasm as if it were real and rationalizes any il-
logical outcomes from interacting with it. For exam-
ple, if the target steps through a phantasmal bridge
and survives the fall, it believes the bridge exists
and something else caused it to fall.

An affected target can even take damage from
the illusion if the phantasm represents a dangerous
creature or hazard. On each of your turns, such a
phantasm can deal 2d8 Psychic damage to the tar-
get if it is in the phantasm’s area or within 5 feet of
the phantasm. The target perceives the damage as a
type appropriate to the illusion.

PHANTASMAL KILLER

Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can
see within range and create an illusion of its deepest
fears, visible only to that creature. The target makes
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target
takes 4d10 Psychic damage and has Disadvantage
on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration.
On a successful save, the target takes half as much
damage, and the spell ends.

For the duration, the target makes a Wisdom sav-
ing throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed

 
  

. save, it takes the Psychic damage again. On a suc-
i _cessfu aes the spell ends.
oe in Spell Slot. The damage in-

eS by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 4.

 

 
 

<a

 

Puantom Sreco

PHANTOM STEED
Level 3 Illusion (Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: 1 hour

A Large, quasi-real, horselike creature appears on
the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice
within range. You decide the creature's appearance,
and it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away
from the steed.

For the duration, you or a creature you choose
can ride the steed. The steed uses the Riding Horse
stat block (see appendix B), except it has a Speed of
100 feet and can travel 13 miles in an hour. When
the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the
rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends early if
the steed takes any damage.

PLANAR ALLY

Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You beseech an otherworldiy entity for aid. The ;

being must be known to you: a god, a demon prince,
or some other being of cosmic saad That cme i

  

sends a Celestial, an Elemental, or a Fiend loyal to
it to aid you. making the creature appear in an un-
occupied space within range. If you know a specific
creature's name, you can speak that name when
you cast this spell to request that creature, though
you might get a different creature anyway (DM's
choice).

When the creature appears, it is under no com-
pulsion to behave a particular way. You can ask it
to perform a service in exchange for payment, but
it isn’t obliged to do so. The requested task could
range from simple (fly us across the chasm, or help
us fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies, or
protect us during our foray into the dungeon). You
must be able to communicate with the creature to
bargain for its services.

Payment can take a variety of forms. A Celestial
might require a sizable donation of gold or magic
items to an allied temple, while a Fiend might de-
mand a living sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Some
creatures might exchange their service for a quest
undertaken by you.

A task that can be measured in minutes requires
a payment worth 100 GP per minute. A task mea-
sured in hours requires 1,000 GP per hour. And
a task measured in days (up to 10 days) requires
10,000 GP per day. The DM can adjust these pay-
ments based on the circumstances under which you
cast the spell. If the task is aligned with the crea-
ture’s ethos, the payment might be halved or even
waived. Nonhazardous tasks typically require only
half the suggested payment, while especially dan-
gerous tasks might require a greater gift. Creatures
rarely accept tasks that seem suicidal.

After the creature completes the task, or when the
agreed-upon duration of service expires, the crea-
ture returns to its home plane after reporting back
to you if possible. If you are unable to agree on a
price for the creature's service, the creature imme-
diately returns to its home plane.

PLANAR BINDING
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a jewel worth 1,000+ GP, which
the spell consumes)

Duration: 24 hours

You attempt to bind a Celestial, an Elemental, a
Fey, or a Fiend to your service. The creature must
be within range for the entire casting of the spell.
(Typically, the creature is first summoned into’
the center of the inverted version of the : fag ,

Circle spell to trap it while this spell is

a

i
a

 
   

completic of the casting, the target must succeed
ona’ Charisma saving throw or be bound to serve
you for the duration. If the creature was summoned
or created by another spell, that spell's duration is
extended to match the duration of this spell.

A bound creature must follow your commands
to the best of its ability. You might command the
creature to accompany you on an adventure, to
guard a location, or to deliver a message. If the
creature is Hostile, it strives to twist your com-
mands to achieve its own objectives. If the creature
carries out your commands completely before the
spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact if you
are on the same plane of existence. If you are on a
different plane, it returns to the place where you
bound it and remains there until the spell ends.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in-
creases with a spell slot of level 6 (10 days), 7 (30
days), 8 (180 days), and 9 (366 days).

PLANE SHIFT

Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,

Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a forked, metal rod worth 250+
GP and attuned to a plane of existence)

Duration: Instantaneous

You and up to eight willing creatures who link
hands in a circle are transported to a different plane
of existence. You can specify a target destination in
general terms, such as the City of Brass on the Ele-
mental Plane of Fire or the palace of Dispater on the
second level of the Nine Hells, and you appear in or
near that destination, as determined by the DM.
Alternatively, if you know the sigil sequence of a
teleportation circle on another plane of existence,
this spell can take you to that circle. If the telepor-
tation circle is too small to hold all the creatures
you transported, they appear in the closest unoccu- ;
pied spaces next to the circle. -

<=
PLANT GROWTH o>
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger) =
Casting Time: Action (Overgrowth) or
8 hours (Enrichment)

Range: 150 feet =
Components: V, S + oe:
Duration: Instantaneous Sa :

    
  
  
 
      
 

on that point become thick and overgrown. A crea-
ture moving through that area must spend 4 feet of
movement for every 1 foot it moves. You can exclude
one or more areas of any size within the spell’s area
from being affected.

Enrichment. All plants in a half-mile radius cen-
tered on a point within range become enriched for
365 days. The plants yield twice the normal amount
of food when harvested. They can benefit from only
one Plant Growth per year.

POISON SPRAY

Necromancy Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You spray toxic mist at a creature within range.
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a
hit, the target takes 1d12 Poison damage.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d12
when you reach levels 5 (2d12), 11 (3d12), and 17
(4d12).

POLYMORPH
Level 4 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a caterpillar cocoon)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You attempt to transform a creature that you can
see within range into a Beast. The target must suc-
ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or shape-shift into
a Beast form for the duration. That form can be any
Beast you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal
a to or less than the target's (or the target's level if
* it doesn't have a Challenge Rating). The target's
Ts game statistics are replaced by the stat block of the
chosen Beast, but the target retains its alignment,
personality, creature type, Hit Points, and Hit Point
Dice. See appendix B for a sample of Beast stat
blocks.

    
   
     

Th ‘target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Hit Points of the Beast form. The
spell early on the target if it has no Temporary

is limited in the actions it can perform
of its new form, and it can't speak

POWER WorRD FORTIFY
Level 7 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Component: V

Duration: Instantaneous

You fortify up to six creatures you can see within
range. The spell bestows 120 Temporary Hit Points,
which you divide among the spell's recipients.

POWER WorD HEAL

Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Component: V

Duration: Instantaneous

A wave of healing energy washes over one creature
you can see within range. The target regains all its
Hit Points. If the creature has the Charmed, Fright-
ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition,
the condition ends. If the creature has the Prone
condition, it can use its Reaction to stand up.

POWER WorD KILL

Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Component: V

Duration: Instantaneous

You compel one creature you can see within range
to die. If the target has 100 Hit Points or fewer, it
dies. Otherwise, it takes 12d12 Psychic damage.

POWER WorpD STUN
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

You overwhelm the mind of one creature you can
see within range. If the target has 150 Hit Points or
fewer, it has the Stunned condition. Otherwise, its
Speed is O until the start of your next turn.
The Stunned target makes a Constitution saving
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the
condition on itself on a success.

 
 
    

HANDALL MACAEY

PRAYER OF HEALING
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to five creatures of your choice who remain
within range for the spell’s entire casting gain the
benefits of a Short Rest and also regain 2d8 Hit
Points. A creature can't be affected by this spell
again until that creature finishes a Long Rest.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.

PRESTIDIGITATION
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Up to 1 hour

You create a magical effect within range. Choose
the effect from the options below. If you cast this
spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its
non-instantaneous effects active at a time.

Sensory Effect. You create an instantaneous,
harmless sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks,
a puff of wind, faint musical notes, or an odd odor.

Fire Play. You instantaneously light or snuff out a
candle, a torch, or a small campfire.

Clean or Soil. You instantaneously clean or soil an
object no larger than 1 cubic foot.

Minor Sensation. You chill, warm, or flavor up to 1
cubic foot of nonliving material for 1 hour.

Magic Mark. You make a color, a small mark, or a
symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.

Minor Creation. You create a nonmagical trinket
or an illusory image that can fit in your hand. It
lasts until the end of your next turn. A trinket can
deal no damage and has no monetary worth.

PRISMATIC SPRAY
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Eight rays of light flash from you in a 60-foot Cone.
Each creature in the Cone makes a Dexterity saving
throw. For each target, roll 1d8 to determine which
color ray aficets it, consulting the Prismatic Rays
table.

   
  

A OWARF HAO AN UNFORTUNATE ENCOUNTER
WITH THE INDIGO RAY OF PrismarTic Spray.

PRISMATIC Rays
1d8 Ray

1 Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful
Save: Half as much damage.

2 Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Suc-
cessful Save: Half as much damage.

3 Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage.

4 Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Suc-
cessful Save: Half as much damage.

5 Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Success-

ful Save: Half as much damage.

6 Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Re-
strained condition and makes a Constitution
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If
it successfully saves three times, the condition
ends. If it fails three times, it has the Petrified
condition until it is freed by an effect like the
Greater Restoration spell. The successes and
failures needn't be consecutive; keep track of
both until the target collects three of a kind.

7 Violet. Filed Save: The target has the Blinded
at the start of your next turn. On a successful

‘save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the

another plane of existence (DM’s choice).
8 Special. The target is struck by two rays. Roll
twice, rerolling any 8.

 

   
 
 

 

    
  

PRISMATIC WALL

Level 9 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: 10 minutes

A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms

a vertical opaque wall—up to 90 feet long, 30 feet
high, and 1 inch thick—centered on a point within
range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe
up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point within
range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you posi-
tion the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the
spell ends instantly without effect.

The wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and
Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and crea-
tures you designate when you cast the spell can
pass through and be near the wall without harm. If
another creature that can see the wall moves within
20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
have the Blinded condition for 1 minute.

The wall consists of seven layers, each with a
different color. When a creature reaches into or
passes through the wall, it does so one layer at a
time through all the layers. Each layer forces the
creature to make a Dexterity saving throw or be af-
fected by that layer’s properties as described in the
Prismatic Layers table.

The wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one
layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means
specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is
gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect
on the wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the vio-
let layer.

PRODUCE FLAME

Conjuration Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: 10 minutes

A flickering flame appears in your hand and remains
there for the duration. While there, the flame emits
no heat and ignites nothing, and it sheds Bright
Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi-
tional 20 feet. The spell ends if you cast it again.
- Until the spell ends,

    

PRISMATIC LAYERS
Order Effects

1 Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Success-
ful Save: Half as much damage. Additional
Effects: Nonmagical ranged attacks can't
pass through this layer, which is destroyed if
it takes at least 25 Cold damage.

2 Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad-
ditional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can't
pass through this layer, which is destroyed
by a strong wind (such as the one created by
Gust of Wind).

3 Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Addi-
tional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes
at least 60 Force damage.

4 Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad-
ditional Effects: A Passwall spell, or another
spell of equal or greater level that can open a
portal on a solid surface, destroys this layer.

5 _ Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Suc-
cessful Save: Half as much damage. Addi-
tional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes
at least 25 Fire damage.

6 Indigo. Failed Save: The target has the Re-
strained condition and makes a Constitu-
tion saving throw at the end of each of its
turns. If it successfully saves three times,
the condition ends. If it fails three times, it
has the Petrified condition until it is freed by
an effect like the Greater Restoration spell.
The successes and failures needn't be con-
secutive; keep track of both until the target
collects three of a kind. Additional Effects:
Spells can't be cast through this layer, which
is destroyed by Bright Light shed by the Day-
light spell.

7 Violet. Failed Save: The target has the
Blinded condition and makes a Wisdom sav-
ing throw at the start of your next turn. On
a successful save, the condition ends. Ona
failed save, the condition ends, and the crea-
ture teleports to another plane of existence
(DM's choice). Additional Effects: This layer

is destroyed by Dispe! Magic.

  
 
   

A SPELLCASTER COULD USE
PROGRAMMED ILLUSION TO CAUSE A
waTcHOOG TO APPEAR ANO KINOLY

ast INTRUDERS TO LEAVE.

PROGRAMMED ILLUSION
Level 6 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 25+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled

You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or
some other visible phenomenon within range that
activates when a specific trigger occurs. The illusion
is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than
a 30-foot Cube, and you decide when you cast the
spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds it
makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5
minutes.

When the trigger you specify occurs, the illusion
springs into existence and performs in the manner
you described. Once the illusion finishes perform-
ing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 min-
utes, after which the illusion can be activated again.

The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you
like, though it must be based on visual or audible
phenomena that occur within 30 feet of the area.
For example, you could create an illusion of yourself
to appear and warn off others who attempt to open
a trapped door.

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature
that takes the Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
it is, the creature can see through the image, and
any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.

  
  
  

on: Concentration, up to 1 day

You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for
the duration. The copy can appear at any location
within range that you have seen before, regardless
of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and
sounds like you, but it is intangible. If the illusion
takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
You can see through the illusion’s eyes and hear
through its ears as if you were in its space. As a
Magic action, you can move it up to 60 feet and
make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way
you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature
that takes the Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
it is, the creature can see through the image, and
any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.

PROTECTION FROM ENERGY

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
Resistance to one damage type of your choice: Acid,
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.

-_—-- —_—-= -_-_—— — — <- ————

PROTECTION FROM EVIL AND GOOD

Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock,

Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a flask of Holy Water worth 25+
GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes

Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
is protected against creatures that are Aberrations,
Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead, "
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures

of those types have Disadvantage on attack rolls

: 4 ar a pn a aia

ie"
%
ca
a

 

| CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

 

ray HOM ae casts Raise DEAD TC

RETURN A FALLEN COMRADE TO LIFE.

against the target. The target also can't be pos-
sessed by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condi-
tions from them. If the target is already possessed,
Charmed, or Frightened by such a creature, the tar-
get has Advantage on any new saving throw against
the relevant effect.

PROTECTION FROM POISON
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour

You touch a creature and end the Poisoned condi-
tion on it. For the duration, the target has Advan-
tage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned
condition, and it has Resistance to Poison damage.

PuRIFY FOOD AND DRINK
Level 1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You remove poison and rot from nonmagical food
and drink in a 5-foot-radius Sphere centered ona
point within range.

 

RAISE DEAD
Level 5 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 500+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

With a touch, you revive a dead creature if it has
been dead no longer than 10 days and it wasn't Un-
dead when it died.

The creature returns to life with 1 Hit Point. This
spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected the
creature at the time of death.

This spell closes all mortal wounds, but it doesn't
restore missing body parts. If the creature is lacking
body parts or organs integral for its survival—its
head, for instance—the spell automatically fails.

Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar-
get takes a -4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced
by 1 until it becomes 0.

POLAR Eoecites

 

i:

RARY’S TELEPATHIC BOND
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (two eggs)
Duration: 1} hour

You forge a telepathic link among up to eight willing
creatures of your choice within range, psychically
linking each creature to all the others for the dura-
tion. Creatures that can’t communicate in any lan-
guages aren't affected by this spell.

Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate
telepathically through the bond whether or not they
share a language. The communication is possible
over any distance, though it can’t extend to other
planes of existence.

Ray OF ENFEEBLEMENT
Level 2 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A beam of enervating energy shoots from you
toward a creature within range. The target must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful
save, the target has Disadvantage on the next attack
roll it makes until the start of your next turn.

On a failed save, the target has Disadvantage on
Strength-based D20 Tests for the duration. During
that time, it also subtracts 1d8 from all its damage
rolls. The target repeats the save at the end of each
of its turns, ending the spell on a success.

RAY OF FROST
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, it takes 1d8 Cold dam-
age, and its Speed is reduced by 10 feet until the
start of your next turn.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (348), and 17 (4d8).

a” lle
yore oe

 

You shoot a greenish ray at a creature within range.
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. Ona
hit, the target takes 248 Poison damage and has the
Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1.

REGENERATE

Level 7 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a prayer wheel)
Duration: | hour

A creature you touch regains 4d8 + 15 Hit Points.
For the duration, the target regains 1 Hit Point at
the start of each of its turns, and any severed body
parts regrow after 2 minutes.

REINCARNATE

Level 5 Necromancy (Druid)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: Touch |

Components: V, S, M (rare oils worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes) p

Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a dead Humanoid or a piece of one. If =
the creature has been dead nolongerthan1O days, =
the spell forms a new body foritandcallsthe soul =
to enter that body. Roll id10 and consult the table —
below to determine the body's species, or the DM _

 
  
   
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

chooses another playable species.
1d10 Species 1d10 Species
1 Aasimar 6 Goliath
2 Dragonborn 7 Halfling
3. Dwarf 8 Human
4 Elf 9
5 TR

  

SPEL

REMOVE CURSE

Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

At your touch, all curses affecting one creature
or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item,
its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner's
Attunement to the object so it can be removed or
discarded.

RESISTANCE

Abjuration Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Component: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You touch a willing creature and choose a damage
type: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Ne-
crotic, Piercing, Poison, Radiant, Slashing, or Thun-
der. When the creature takes damage of the chosen
type before the spell ends, the creature reduces the
total damage taken by 1d4. A creature can benefit
from this spell only once per turn.

RESURRECTION
Level 7 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

With a touch, you revive a dead creature that has
been dead for no more than a century, didn’t die of
old age, and wasn't Undead when it died.

The creature returns to life with all its Hit Points.

This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected
the creature at the time of death. This spell closes
all mortal wounds and restores any missing body
parts,

Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar-
get takes a ~4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced
by 1 until it becomes 0.

Casting this spell to revive a creature that has
been dead for 365 days or longer taxes you. Until
you finish a Long Rest, you can't cast spells again,
and you have Disadvantage on D20 Tests.

REVERSE GRAVITY

Level 7 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 100 feet

Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

This spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius, 100-

foot high Cylinder centered on a point within range,

All creatures and objects in that area that aren't
anchored to the ground fall upward and reach the
top of the Cylinder. A creature can make a Dexter-
ity saving throw to grab a fixed object it can reach,
thus avoiding the fall upward.

If a ceiling or an anchored object is encountered
in this upward fall, creatures and objects strike it
just as they would during a downward fall. If an af-
fected creature or object reaches the Cylinder’s top
without striking anything, it hovers there for the
duration. When the spell ends, affected objects and
creatures fall downward.

REVIVIFY

Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 300+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a creature that has died within the last
minute. That creature revives with 1 Hit Point. This
spell can’t revive a creature that has died of old age,
nor does it restore any missing body parts.

ROPE TRICK

Level 2 Transmutation (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a segment of rope)
Duration: 1 hour

You touch a rope. One end of it hovers upward until
the rope hangs perpendicular to the ground or the
rope reaches a ceiling. At the rope’s upper end, an
Invisible 3-foot-by-5-foot portal opens to an extra-
dimensional space that lasts until the spell ends.
That space can be reached by climbing the rope,
which can be pulled into or dropped out of it.

The space can hold up to eight Medium or smaller
creatures. Attacks, spells, and other effects can't
pass into or out of the space, but creatures inside
it can see through the portal. Anything inside the
space drops out when the spell ends.

=. ae

eAsarns

SACRED FLAME
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you
can see within range. The target must succeed on
a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 Radiant dam-
age. The target gains no benefit from Half Cover or
Three-Quarters Cover for this save.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

SANCTUARY

Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass from a mirror)
Duration: 1] minute

You ward a creature within range. Until the spell
ends, any creature who targets the warded creature
with an attack roll or a damaging spell must succeed
ona Wisdom saving throw or either choose a new
target or lose the attack or spell. This spell doesn't
protect the warded creature from areas of effect.
The spell ends ‘i the warded creature makes an at-
tack roll, casts 2 spell, or deals damage. mau

THE SCRYING SPELL HELPS A GNOME BARD KEEP IN TOUCH
WITH FRIENDS AND FAMILY AROUND THE WORLD.

 

SCORCHING Ray

Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: instantaneous

 

You hurl three fiery rays. You can hurl them at one
target within range or at several. Make a ranged
spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes
2d6 Fire damage.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create one ad-
ditional ray for each spell slot level above 2.

SCRYING
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: 10 minutes

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 1,000+ GP, such
as a crystal ball, mirror, or water-filled font)

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You can see and hear a creature you choose that is
on the same plane of existence as you. The target
makes a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified
(see the tables below) by how well you know the
target and the sort of physical connection you have

CHAPTER 7! SPELLS

Js QjQ

to it. The target doesn’t know what it is making the
save against, only that it feels uneasy.

Your Knowledge of the Target Is... Save Modifier
Secondhand (heard of the target) +5
Firsthand (met the target) +0
Extensive (know the target well) -5
You Have the Target's ... Save Modifier
Picture or other likeness -2
Garment or other possession -4
Body part, lock of hair, or bit of nail -10

On a successful save, the target isn't affected, and
you can’t use this spell on it again for 24 hours.

On a failed save, the spell creates an Invisible,
intangible sensor within 10 feet of the target. You
can see and hear through the sensor as if you were
there. The sensor moves with the target, remaining
within 10 feet of it for the duration. If something
can see the sensor, it appears as a luminous orb
about the size of your fist.

Instead of targeting a creature, you can target a
location you have seen. When you do so, the sensor
appears at that location and doesn't move.

SEARING SMITE
Level 1 Evocation (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: 1 minute

As you hit the target, it takes an extra 1d6 Fire dam-
age from the attack. At the start of each of its turns
until the spell ends, the target takes 1d6 Fire dam-
age and then makes a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, the spell continues. On a successful
save, the spell ends.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. All the damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

SEE INVISIBILITY
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of talc)
Duration: 1 hour

For the duration, you see creatures and objects that
have the Invisible condition as if they were visible,
and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Creatures
and objects there appear ghostly.

SEEMING

Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: 8 hours

You give an illusory appearance to each creature of
your choice that you can see within range. An un-
willing target can make a Charisma saving throw,
and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell.

You can give the same appearance or different
ones to the targets. The spell can change the ap-
pearance of the targets’ bodies and equipment. You
can make each creature seem 1 foot shorter or taller
and appear heavier or lighter. A target's new ap-
pearance must have the same basic arrangement of
limbs as the target, but the extent of the illusion is
otherwise up to you. The spell lasts for the duration.

The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up
to physical inspection. For example, if you use this
spell to add a hat to a creature's outfit, objects pass
through the hat.

A creature that takes the Study action to examine
a target can make an Intelligence (Investigation)
check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it
becomes aware that the target is disguised.

SENDING
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Unlimited

Components: V, S, M (a copper wire)
Duration: Instantaneous

You send a short message of 25 words or fewer to
a creature you have met or a creature described to
you by someone who has met it. The target hears
the message in its mind, recognizes you as the
sender if it knows you, and can answer ina like
manner immediately. The spell enables targets to
understand the meaning of your message.

You can send the message across any distance and
even to other planes of existence, but if the target
is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent
chance that the message doesn’t arrive. You know if
the delivery fails.

Upon receiving your message, a creature can
block your ability to reach it again with this spell
for 8 hours. If you try to send snother message
during that time, you learn that you are blocked,
and the spell fails.

caro

ain eeal. BROS

ie

moles aye hie
A BEHOLDER AND A BEHIR DURING A Ree takes):

SEQUESTER
Level 7 Transmutation (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (gem dust worth 5,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

With a touch, you magically sequester an object ora
willing creature. For the duration, the target has the
Invisible condition and can't be targeted by Divina-
tion spells, detected by magic, or viewed remotely
with magic.

If the target is a creature, it enters a state of sus-
pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition,
doesn’t age, and doesn't need food, water, or air.

You can set a condition for the spell to end early.
The condition can be anything you choose, but it
must occur or be visible within 1 mile of the target.
Examples include “after 1,000 years” or “when the
tarrasque awakens.” This spell also ends if the tar-
get takes any damage.

SHAPECHANGE
Level 9 Transmutation (Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a jade circlet worth 1,500+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You shape-shift into another creature for the dura-
tion or until you take a Magic action to shape-shift
into a different eligible form. The new form must be
of a creature that has a Challenge Rating no higher
than your level or Challenge Rating. You must have
seen the sort of creature before, and it can't be a
Construct or an Undead.

When you shape-shift, you gain a number of
Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the
form. The spell ends early if you have no Temporary
Hit Points left.

Your game statistics are replaced by the stat block
of the chosen form, but you retain your creature
type; alignment; personality; Intelligence, Wisdom

and Charisma scores; Hit Points; Hit Point Dee = A

proficiencies; and ability to communicate, If
have the er. you retain itt

   
   
    

 

  

SHATTER

Level 2 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a chip of mica)
Duration: Instantaneous

A loud noise erupts from a point of your choice
within range. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius
Sphere centered there makes a Constitution saving
throw, taking 3d8 Thunder damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one. A Con-
struct has Disadvantage on the save.

A nonmagical object that isn’t being worn or car-
ried also takes the damage if it's in the spell’s area.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.

SHIELD

Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you are
hit by an attack roll or targeted by the Magic Missile
spell

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: ] round

An imperceptible barrier of magical force protects
you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5
bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack,
and you take no damage from Magic Missile.

SHIELD OF FAITH

Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

A shimmering field surrounds a creature of your
choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC
for the duration.

SHILLELAGH
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)

Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (mistletoe)
Duration: 1 minute

A Club or Quarterstaff you are holding is imbued
with nature's power. For the duration, you can use

your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the

attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that

weapon, and the weapon's damage die becomes a d8.
If the attack deals damage, it can be Force damage
or the weapon's normal damage type (your choice),
The spell ends early if you cast it again or if you
let go of the weapon.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage die changes when
you reach levels S (d10), 11 (d12), and 17 (2d6),

SHINING SMITE

Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

The target hit by the strike takes an extra 2d6 Radi-
ant damage from the attack. Until the spell ends, the
target sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot radius, attack
rolls against it have Advantage, and it can't benefit
from the Invisible condition.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.

SHOCKING GRASP
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Lightning springs from you to a creature that you
try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Lightning dam-
age, and it can't make Opportunity Attacks until the
start of its next turn.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

SILENCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Cleric, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

For the duration, no sound can be created within
or pass through a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered
on a point you choose within range. Any creature
or object entirely inside the Sphere has Immunity
to Thunder damage, and creatures have the Deaf-
ened condition while entirely inside it. Casting a
that includes a Verbal component is impossible
there.

  
 
  
 
  

Sirent IMAGE CAN .
concocr HLUSIONS .
oF THE MUNOANE

ANO THE WHIMSICAL

SILENT IMAGE
Level I Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create the image of an object, a creature, or
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger
than a 15-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot
within range and lasts for the duration. The image is
purely visual; it isn’t accompanied by sound, smell,
or other sensory effects.

Asa Magic action, you can cause the image
to move to any spot within range. As the image
changes location, you can alter its appearance so
that its movements appear natural for the image.
For example, if you create an image of a creature
and move it, you can alter the image so that it ap-
pears to be walking.

Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
an illusion, since things can pass through it. A crea-
ture that takes a Study action to examine the image
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
it is, the creature can see through the image.

SIMULACRUM
Level 7 Illusion (Wizard)

Casting Time: 12 hours

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (powdered ruby worth 1,500+
GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled

You create a simulacrum of one Beast or Humanoid
that is within 10 feet of you for the entire casting

SOLOS te ee

   

of the spell. You finish the casting by touching both _
Hs

and a pile of ice or snow that is the
s that creature, and the pile turns into
nulacrum, which is a creature. It uses the
atistics of the original creature at the time
‘except it is a Construct, its Hit Point
oe is half as much, and it can't cast this spell.

    
  

Verve) ioe
__ The simulacrum is Friendly to you and creatures

you designate. It obeys your commands and acts on
your turn in combat. The simulacrum can't gain lev-
els, and it can't take Short or Long Rests.
If the simulacrum takes damage, the only way
to restore its Hit Points is to repair it as you take a
Long Rest, during which you expend components
worth 100 GP per Hit Point restored. The simula-
crum must stay within 5 feet of you for the repair.
The simulacrum lasts until it drops to O Hit
Points, at which point it reverts to snow and melts
away. If you cast this spell again, any simulacrum
you created with this spell is instantly destroyed.

SLEEP

Level I Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sand or rose petals)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Each creature of your choice in a 5-foot-radius
Sphere centered on a point within range must suc-
ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Inca-
pacitated condition until the end of its next turn,
at which point it must repeat the save. If the target
fails the second save, the target has the Unconscious
condition for the duration. The spell ends on a tar-
get if it takes damage or someone within 5 feet of it
takes an action to shake it out of the spell's effect.
Creatures that don't sleep, such as elves, or that
have Immunity to the Exhaustion condition auto-
matically succeed on saves against this spell.

SLEET STORM
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a miniature umbrella)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

Until the spell ends, sleet falls in a 40-foot-tall,
20-foot-radius Cylinder centered on a point you
choose within range. The area is Heavily Obscured,
and exposed flames in the area are doused.
Ground in the Cylinder is Difficult Terrain. When
a creature enters the Cylinder for the first time on
a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a .

_ Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition

and | lose Concentration.

 
 

SLOw
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a drop of molasses)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You alter time around up to six creatures of your
choice in a 40-foot Cube within range. Each target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be af-
fected by this spell for the duration.

An affected target's Speed is halved, it takes a -2
penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it
can't take Reactions. On its turns, it can take either
an action or a Bonus Action, not both, and it can
make only one attack if it takes the Attack action.

If it casts a spell with a Somatic component, thereis _

a 25 percent chance the spell fails as a result of the
target making the spell's gestures too slowly.

An affected target repeats the save at the end
of each of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a
success.

SORCEROUS BuRST
Cantrip Evocation (Sorcerer)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You cast sorcerous energy at one creature or object
within range. Make a ranged attack roll against the
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 damage of a
type you choose: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison,
Psychic, or Thunder.

If you roll an 8 on a d8 for this spell, you can roll
another d8, and add it to the damage. When you
cast this spell, the maximum number of these d8s
you can add to the spell's damage equals your spell-
casting ability modifier.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

SPARE THE DYING
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 15 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

Choose a creature within range that has 0 Hit
Points and isn’t dead. The creature becomes Stable.
Cantrip Upgrade. The range doubles when you

each levels 5 (30 feet), 11 (60 feet), and 17 (120 feet).

A wuMAN Dauio uses Sean
With ANIMALS TO CHAT WiTre
HIS BEST BEAR FRIEND.

 

SPEAK WITH ANIMALS
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Warlock)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: 10 minutes

For the duration, you can comprehend and verbally
communicate with Beasts, and you can use any of
the Influence action's skill options with them.

Most Beasts have little to say about topics that
don’t pertain to survival or companionship, but at
minimum, a Beast can give you information about
nearby locations and monsters, including whatever
it has perceived within the past day.

SPEAK WITH DEAD
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, S, M (burning incense)
Duration: 10 minutes

You grant the semblance of life to a corpse of your
choice within range, allowing it to answer ques-
tions you pose. The corpse must have a mouth, and
this spell fails if the deceased creature was Undead
when it died. The spell also fails if tne corpse was
the target of this spell within the past 10 days.

sESPER Cysiec

i
:
,
a

 

=

Until the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to
five questions. The corpse knows only what it knew
in life, including the languages it knew. Answers are
usually brief, cryptic, or repetitive, and the corpse
is under no compulsion to offer a truthful answer if
you are antagonistic toward it or it recognizes you
as an enemy. This spell doesn't return the creature's
soul to its body, only its animating spirit. Thus, the
corpse can’t learn new information, doesn’t compre-
hend anything that has happened since it died, and
can't speculate about future events.

SPEAK WITH PLANTS

Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: 10 minutes

You imbue plants in an immobile 30-foot Emana-
tion with limited sentience and animation, giving
them the ability to communicate with you and fol-
low your simple commands. You can question plants
about events in the spell’s area within the past day,
gaining information about creatures that have
passed, weather, and other circumstances.

You can also turn Difficult Terrain caused by plant
growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into
ordinary terrain that lasts for the duration. Or you
can turn ordinary terrain where plants are present
into Difficult Terrain that lasts for the duration.

The spell doesn't enable plants to uproot them-
selves and move about, but they can move their
branches, tendrils, and stalks for you.

If a Plant creature is in the area, you can commu-
nicate with it as if you shared a common language.

SPIDER CLIMB
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a drop of bitumen and a spider)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
gains the ability to move up, down, and across
vertical surfaces and along ceilings, while leaving
its hands free. The target also gains a Climb Speed
equal to its Speed.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level about 2.

  
  

   

Spike GrowTH

Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (seven thorns)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

The ground in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered

on a point within range sprouts hard spikes and
thorns. The area becomes Difficult Terrain for the
duration. When a creature moves into or within the
area, it takes 2d4 Piercing damage for every 5 feet
it travels.

The transformation of the ground is camouflaged
to look natural. Any creature that can't see the area
when the spell is cast must take a Search action
and succeed on a Wisdom (Perception or Survival)
check against your spell save DC to recognize the
terrain as hazardous before entering it.

SPIRIT GUARDIANS

Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

Protective spirits flit around you in a 15-foot Ema-
nation for the duration. If you are good or neutral,
their spectral form appears angelic or fey (your
choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.

When you cast this spell, you can designate crea-
tures to be unaffected by it. Any other creature's
Speed is halved in the Emanation, and whenever the
Emanation enters a creature's space and whenever
a creature enters the Emanation or ends its turn
there, the creature must make a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 Ra-
diant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8
Necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful
save, the creature takes half as much damage. A
creature makes this save only once per turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3.

o_o

SPIRITUAL WEAPON

Level 2 Evocation (Cleric)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You create a floating, spectral force that resembles
a weapon of your choice and lasts for the duration.

The force appears within range in a space of your
choice, and you can immediately make one melee
spell attack against one creature within 5 feet of the
force. On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal
to 1d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.

As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can
move the force up to 20 feet and repeat the attack
against a creature within 5 feet of it.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for every slot level above 2.

STAGGERING SMITE
Level 4 Enchantment (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: Instantaneous

The target takes an extra 4d6 Psychic damage from
the attack, and the target must succeed on a Wis-
dom saving throw or have the Stunned condition
until the end of your next turn.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The extra damage
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 4.

CHAPTER 7! SPELLS

-
A GOLIATH CLERIC CAST SPIRITUAL

‘
WEAPON IN BATTLE WITH AN UMBER HULK.
—

 

STARRY WISP
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Druid)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You launch a mote of light at one creature or object
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against
the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Radiant
damage, and until the end of your next turn, it emits
Dim Light in a 10-foot radius and can't benefit from
the Invisible condition.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).

STEEL WIND STRIKE
Level 5 Conjuration (Ranger, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: S, M (a Melee weapon worth 1+ SP)
Duration: Instantaneous

You flourish the weapon used in the casting and
then vanish to strike like the wind. Choose up to
five creatures you can see within range. Make a

melee spell attack against each target. On a hit, a
target takes 6d10 Force damage.

You then teleport to an unoccupied space you can
see within 5 feet of one of the targets.

STINKING CLOUD
Level 3 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a rotten egg)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow, nau-
seating gas centered on a point within range. The
cloud is Heavily Obscured. The cloud lingers in the
air for the duration or until a strong wind (such as
the one created by Gust of Wind) disperses it.

| Each creature that starts its turn in the Sphere
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
have the Poisoned condition until the end of the
current turn. While Poisoned in this way, the crea-
ture can’t take an action or a Bonus Action.

STONE SHAPE
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (soft clay)
Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller
or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any di-
mension and form it into any shape you like. For ex-
ample, you could shape a large rock into a weapon,
statue, or coffer, or you could make a small passage
through a wall that is 5 feet thick. You could also

shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut.

The object you create can have up to two hinges

and a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn't possible.

STONESKIN

Level 4 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,

Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slash-
ing damage.

~.
———

STORM OF VENGEANCE

Level 9 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 1 mile

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A churning storm cloud forms for the duration,
centered on a point within range and spreading to

a radius of 300 feet. Each creature under the cloud
when it appears must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw or take 2d6 Thunder damage and have
the Deafened condition for the duration.

At the start of each of your later turns, the storm
produces different effects, as detailed below.

Turn 2. Acidic rain falls. Each creature and object
under the cloud takes 4d6 Acid damage.

Turn 3. You call six bolts of lightning from the
cloud to strike six different creatures or objects
beneath it. Each target makes a Dexterity saving
throw, taking 10d6 Lightning damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.

Turn 4. Hailstones rain down. Each creature un-
der the cloud takes 2d6 Bludgeoning damage.

Turns 5-10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the area
under the cloud. Each creature there takes 1d6 Cold
damage. Until the spell ends, the area is Difficult
Terrain and Heavily Obscured, ranged attacks with
weapons are impossible there, and strong wind
blows through the area.

SUGGESTION
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, M (a drop of honey)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours

You suggest a course of activity—described in no
more than 25 words—to one creature you can see
within range that can hear and understand you. The
suggestion must sound achievable and not involve
anything that would obviously deal damage to the
target or it allies. For example, you could say, “Fetch
the key to the cult's treasure vault, and give the key
to me.” Or you could say, “Stop fighting, leave this
library peacefully, and don't return.”

The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving
throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura-
tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the
target. The Charmed target pursues the suggestion
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can
continue for the entire duration, but if the sug-
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time,
the spell ends for the target upon completing it.

a ee ee

Ascerant Soiait (Bewo.oerkin)

SUMMON ABERRATION
Level 4 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a pickled tentacle and an eye-
ball in a platinum-inlaid vial worth 400+ GP)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You call forth an aberrant spirit. It manifests in an
unoccupied space that you can see within range and
uses the Aberrant Spirit stat block. When you cast

the spell, choose Beholderkin, Mind Flayer, or Slaad.

The creature resembles an Aberration of that kind,
which determines certain details in its stat block.
The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit
Points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, it shares your Initiative count, but it takes
its turn immediately after yours. It obeys your ver-
bal commands (no action required by you). If you
don't issue any, it takes the Dodge action and uses
its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell’s level in the stat block.

SUMMON BEAsT

Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a feather, tuft of fur, and fish
tail inside a gilded acorn worth 200+ GP)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You call forth a bestial spirit. It manifests in an
unoccupied space that you can see within range
and uses the Bestial Spirit stat block. When you
cast the spell, choose an environment: Air, Land, or

 
 

APTER 7 | SPELLS

| ABERRANT SPIRIT 7

Str 16 +3 +3

  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

 

— — eee = -

 

Medium Aberration, Neutral

| AC 11 + the spell's level
| HP 40 + 10 for each spell level above 4

| Speed 30 ft.; Fly 30 ft. (hover; Beholderkin only)

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
Dex 10 +0 +0 ConlS +2 42

Int 16 +3 +3 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHa6 -2 ~2

|

Immunities Psychic

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10

| Languages Deep Speech, understands the languages
you know

| CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)

TRAITS

| Regeneration (Slaad Only). The spirit regains 5
| Hit Points at the start of its turn if it has at least 1
| Hit Point.

| Whispering Aura (Mind Flayer Only). At the start of

each of the spirit’s turns, the spirit emits psionic energy
| if it doesn't have the Incapacitated condition. Wisdom
Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each crea-
ture (other than you) within 5 feet of the spirit. Failure:
2d6 Psychic damage.

ACTIONS

I iim nea
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks \
equal to half this spell’s level (round down).

Claw (Slaad Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals |
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d10 + 3 + the |
spell’s level Slashing damage, and the target can't re-
gain Hit Points until the start of the spirit’s next turn.

Eye Ray (Beholderkin Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus
equals your spell attack modifier, range 150 ft. Hit: 1d8
+ 3+ the spell's level Psychic damage.

Psychic Slam (Mind Flayer Only). Melee Attack Roll:
Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit:
1d8 + 3 + the spell’s level Psychic damage.

— ee err

 

 

=a

Water. The creature resembles an animal of your
choice that is native to the chosen environment,
which determines certain details in its stat block.
The creature disappears when it drops to O Hit
Points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Lise the spell slot's
level for the spell’s level in the etat block.

MMON CELESTIAL
a 5 Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin)

casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concen
You call forth a Celestial spirit. It manifests in an
angelic form in an unoccupied space that you can
see within range and uses the Celestial Spirit stat
block. When you cast the spell, choose Avenger or
Defender. Your choice determines certain details in
its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops
to 0 Hit Points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot’s
level for the spell's level in the stat block.

_S, M (a reliquary worth 500+ GP)
tration, up to 7 hour

——

 

BESTIAL SPIRIT

Small Beast, Neutral

AC 11 + the spell’s level

HP 20 (Air only) or 30 (Land and Water only) + 5 for
each spell level above 2

Speed 30 ft.; Climb 30 ft. (Land only); Fly 60 ft. (Air

only); Swim 30 ft. (Water only)
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE

Str 18 +4 +4 Dex) +0 +0 Conlé +3 +3
Int 4 -3 -3 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHA 5 =3 =3

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12
, Languages understands the languages you know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)

| TRAITS

$$

| Flyby (Air Only). The spirit doesn’t provoke Opportu-
| nity Attacks when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

Pack Tactics (Land and Water Only). The spirit has
Advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least
one of the spirit’s allies is within 5 feet of the creature
and the ally doesn’t have the Incapacitated condition.

Water Breathing (Water Only). The spirit can breathe
only underwater.

ACTIONS -

Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Rend at-
tacks equal to half this spell's level (round down).

 

Rend. Melee Attu. Roll: Bonus equals your spell at-
tack modifier, reac 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 4 + the spell's level
Piercing damage

 

  
  
    

Ceresriat Spier
(Avencer)

CELESTIAL SPIRIT
| Large Celestial, Neutral

    
 

AC 11 + the spell’s level + 2 (Defender only)
HP 40 + 10 for each spell level above 5

| Speed 30 ft., Fly 40 ft.

MOD SAVE MOO SAVE MOO SAVE |

Str 16 +3 +3 Dex 14 +2 +2 Conl6é +3 +3
Int 10 +0 +0 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHAl6 43 43 |

Resistances Radiant

Immunities Charmed, Frightened

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 12

Languages Celestial, understands the languages you
know

CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)

 
       
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

ACTIONS

Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks
equal to half this spell’s level (round down).

Radiant Bow (Avenger Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus
equals your spell attack modifier, range 600 ft. Hit: 2d6
+ 2+ the spell's level Radiant damage.

Radiant Mace (Defender Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bo-
nus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit:
1d10 + 3 + the spell’s level Radiant damage, and the
spirit can choose itself or another creature it can see
within 10 feet of the target. The chosen creature gains
1d10 Temporary Hit Points.

Healing Touch (1/Day). The spirit touches another crea-
ture, The target regains Hit Points equal to 2d8 + the
spell's level.

 

 
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     

"e: ¥ = -

a vn : iat :
i So prep 7 | SPELLS ae

  

SUMMON CONSTRUCT

Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a lockbox worth 400+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You call forth the spirit of a Construct. It manifests
in an unoccupied space that you can see within
range and uses the Construct Spirit stat block.
When you cast the spell, choose a material: Clay,
Metal, or Stone. The creature resembles an animate
statue (you determine the appearance) made of the
chosen material, which determines certain details in
its stat block. The creature disappears when it drops
to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don’t issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell’s level in the stat block.

SUMMON DRAGON
Level 5 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (an object with the image of a
dragon engraved on it worth 500+ GP)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You call forth a Dragon spirit. It manifests in an
unoccupied space that you can see within range and
uses the Draconic Spirit stat block. The creature
disappears when it drops to 0 Hit Points or when
the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot’s
level for the spell’s level in the stat block.

| CONSTRUCT SPIRIT

| Medium Construct, Neutral

 

   

 

AC 13 + the spell’s level
HP 40 + 15 for each spell level above 4

Speed 30 ft.

MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MCD SAVE
| Str 18 +4 +4 Dex 10 +0 +0 CoNnls +4 +4
Int 14 +2 +2 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHa 5 -3 -3

Resistances Poison

Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened,
Paralyzed, Poisoned

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10

Languages Understands the languages you know

CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)

TRAITS

Heated Body (Metal Only). A creature that hits the
spirit with a melee attack or that starts its turn ina
grapple with the spirit takes 1d10 Fire damage.

Stony Lethargy (Stone Only). When a creature starts
its turn within 10 feet of the spirit, the spirit can target

| it with magical energy if the spirit can see it. Wisdom

Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, the target.
Failure: Until the start of its next turn, the target can't
make Opportunity Attacks, and its Speed is halved.

ACTIONS

Multiattack, The spirit makes a number of Slam attacks

equal to half this spell's level (round down).

Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack

modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 4 + the spell’s level Blud-

geoning damage.

REACTIONS

Berserk Lashing (Clay Only). Trigger: The spirit takes

damage from a creature. Response: The spirit makes

a Slam attack against that creature if possible, or the
spirit moves up to half its Speed toward that creature
without provoking Opportunity Attacks.

Consrrucr Spirir (Stone)

  
   
   
 

 

  

yctoOn OFT

     
     

‘ MO} 1 ELEMENTAL
Level 4 Con onjuration (Druid, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

feneese feet

V, S, M (air, a pebble, ash, and water
de a gold-inlaid vial worth 400+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You call forth an Elemental spirit. It manifests in an

unoccupied space that you can see within range and

uses the Elemental Spirit stat block. When you cast

Sica the spell, choose an element: Air, Earth, Fire, or Wa-

(Cove) ter. The creature resembles a bipedal form wreathed
in the chosen element, which determines certain de-
tails in its stat block. The creature disappears when
it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

‘) Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
| — level for the spell’s level in the stat block.

    
 

 

DRACONIC SPIRIT
Large Dragon, Neutral

AC 14 + the spell’s level ) | ELEMENTAL Spirit
| HP 50 + 10 for each spell level above 5 Medium Elemental, Neutral
| Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft. moo save | | AC 11+ the spell’s level
ss aa ae Dex 14 a = Con? Sa HP SO + 10 for each spell level above 4
TR +

Speed 40 ft.; Burrow 40 ft. (Earth only); Fly 40 ft.

Int 10 +0 +0 Wis 14 +2 +2 CHAI4 +2 +2 (hover; Air only); Swim 40 ft. (Water only)
;

. : * . MOD SAVE MOO SAVE Moo SAVE
sistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison

aie Charmed, Frightened, Poisoned ) | Str 18 +4 +4 Dex 15 #2 eB Con 17 ee

Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 60 ft., | Int 4 -3 -3 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHal6 +3 43_

 

Passive Perception 12

; | Resistances Acid (Water only), Lightningand Thunder |

Languages Draconic, understands the languages you (Air only), Piercing and Slashing (Earth only) ~~ sty

know ' Immunities Fire (Fire only), Poison; Exhaustion, z
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) Paralyzed, Petrified, Poisoned a :
TRAITS Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 % rs
ay ee ee Languages Primordial, understands the languages you | i
Shared Resistances. When you summon the spirit, ieee ;
choose one of its Resistances. You have Resistance to CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) >
the chosen damage type until the spell ends.

TRAITS

ACTIONS

Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Rend at-
tacks equal to half the spell’s level (round down), and it
uses Breath Weapon.

Amorphous Form (Air, Fire, and Water Only). The spirit
can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide
without it counting as Difficult Terrain.

ACTIONS

Rend. Melee Attack: Bonus equals your spell attack De NS a eee
modifier, reach 10 feet. Hit: 1d6 +4 + the spell’s level} | Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Slam attacks
Piercing damage. } equal to half this spell's level (round down).

Breath Weapon. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC equals your , Slam. heim EPS Bonus as Is
| spell save DC, each creature in a 30-foot Cone. Failure: ei 5
| 2d6 damage of a type this spirit has Resistance to ae

By choice when you cast the spell).. Success: Half dan

 

Ze Deel eel al a el eU = Ion
‘a r 7
Temas). s

 

     

=
|

ta Fey Spirit |
6 SUMMON FEY | Small Fey, Neutral
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Warlock, Wizard) | AC 12+ the spell’s level |
Casting Time: Action » HP 30 + 10 for each spell level above 3 |
Range: 90 feet , Speed 30 ft., Fly 30 ft. |
Components: V, S, M (a gilded flower worth 300+ GP) ; MOO SAVE MOD SAVE MOD save |
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour Str 13 +1 +1 Dex 16 +3 +3 ConT4 42 42 |
You call forth a Fey spirit. It manifests in an unoc- j Int 14 +2 +2 Wis 11 +0 +0 CHAT6 +3 +3
cupied space that you can see within range anduses | | aunities Charmed
the Fey Spirit stat block. When you cast the spell, Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 |
choose a mood: Fuming, Mirthful, or Tricksy. The Languages Sylvan, understands the languages you |
creature resembles a Fey creature of your choice | know |
marked by the chosen mood, which determines cer- | CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
tain details in its stat block. The creature disappears f
when it drops to O Hit Points or when the spell ends. ACTIONS
The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In _ Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Fey Blade
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, attacks equal to half this spell’s level (round down).
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It Fev Blade. Melee Attack Roll:
obeys your verbal commands (no action required wy rome: na aahhaicree . ; mans ye Foe spell
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge attack modifier, reach 5S ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell’s
action and uses its movement to avoid danger. level Force damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's Bonus ACTIONS
level for the spell's level in the stat block. Fey Step. The spirit magically teleports up to 30 feet to
an unoccupied space it can see. Then one of the follow-
SUMMON FIEND ing effects occurs, based on the spirit's chosen mood:
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard) Fuming. The spirit has Advantage on the next attack roll
; aa it makes before the end of this turn.
eee Mirthful. Wisdom Saving Throw: be equals your spell
Comeon ents: V, S, M (a bloody vial worth 600+ GP) ~ an one SesOer the spirit can see within 10
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour eet o itself. Failure: The target is Charmed by you
and the spirit for 1 minute or until the target takes
You call forth a fiendish spirit. It manifests in an any damage. s
unoccupied space that you can see within range Tricksy. The spirit fills a 10-foot Cube within 5 feet of it
and uses the Fiendish Spirit stat block. When you with magical Darkness, which !asts until the end of its z
cast the spell, choose Demon, Devil, or Yugoloth. next turn. $

   
 

Spee mt UN fon tat Se

  
   

The creature resembles a Fiend of the
chosen type, which determines certain
details in its stat block. The creature
disappears when it drops to O Hit
Points or when the spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and
your allies. In combat, the crea-
ture shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately
after yours. It obeys your verbal
commands (no action required by
you). If you don't issue any, it takes
the Dodge action and uses its move-
ment to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use
the spell slot's level for the spell’s level in
the stat block.

FIENDISH SPIRIT
Large Fiend, Neutral

 

AC 12+ the spell’s level
_ HP 50 (Demon only) or 40 (Devil only) or 60 (Yugoloth

only) + 15 for each spell level above 6

| Speed 40 ft.; Climb 40 ft. (Demon only); Fly 60 ft.

Str 13 +1 «41

a ee a

(Devil only)
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE

Dex 16 +3 +3 CON15 +2 +2
Inr 10 +0 +0 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHAI6 +3 43

Resistances Fire

Immunities Poison; Poisoned

Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10
Languages Abyssal, Infernal, Telepathy 60 ft.

CR None (XP 0; PS equals your Proficiency Bonus)

TRAITS

Death Throes (Demon Only). When the spirit drops to

0 Hit Points or the spell ends, the spirit explodes. Dex-
terity Saving Throw DC equals your spell save DC, each
creature in a 10-foot Emanation originating from the
spirit. Failure: 2c39 plus this spell’s level Fire damage.
Success: Half darr.a ce.

,

 

Fienorsm Spinit (Devin)

Devil’s Sight (Devil Only). Magical Darkness doesn’t
impede the spirit’s Darkvision.

Magic Resistance. The spirit has Advantage on saving
throws against spells and other magical effects.

ACTIONS

Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks
equal to half this spell’s level (round down).

Bite (Demon Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d12 + 3 + the
spell’s level Necrotic damage.

Claws (Yugoloth Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 + 3 + the
spell's level Slashing damage. immediately after the at-
tack hits or misses, the spirit can teleport up to 30 feet
to an unoccupied space it can see.

Fiery Strike (Devil Only). Melee or Ranged Attack
Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach
5 ft. or range 150 ft. Hit: 2d6 + 3 + the spell’s level
Fire damage.

 

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS yi 227

— 77

SUMMON UNDEAD
Level 3 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 90 feet

Components: V, S, M (a gilded skull worth 300+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You call forth an Undead spirit. It manifests in an
unoccupied space that you can see within range
and uses the Undead Spirit stat block. When you
cast the spell, choose the creature's form: Ghostly,
Putrid, or Skeletal. The spirit resembles an Undead
creature with the chosen form, which determines
certain details in its stat block. The creature dis-
appears when it drops to O Hit Points or when the
spell ends.

The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count,
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It
obeys your verbal commands (no action required
by you). If you don't issue any, it takes the Dodge
action and uses its movement to avoid danger.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
level for the spell's level in the stat block.

 

Unoeao Spirit (Guostiy)

UNDEAD SPIRIT
| Medium Undead, Neutral

AC 11 + the spell’s level were Difficult Terrain. If it ends its turn inside an object,
HP 30 (Ghostly and Putrid only) or 20 (Skeletal only) + it is shunted to the nearest unoccupied space and takes
10 for each spell level above 3 1d10 Force damage for every 5 feet traveled.
Speed 30 ft.; Fly 40 ft. (hover; Ghostly only)
MOO SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE ACTIONS
Str 12 + +1 Dex 16 +3 +3 ConlS +2 +2 Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks
Int 4 -3 -3 Wis 10 +0 +0 CHa9d -1 -1 equal to half this spell’s level (round down).
Immunities Necrotic, Poison; Exhaustion, Frightened, Deathly Touch (Ghostly Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bo-
Paralyzed, Poisoned nus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit:
Senses Darkvision 60 ft., Passive Perception 10 1d8 + 3 + the spell’s level Necrotic damage, and the
Languages Understands the languages you know target has the Frightened condition until the end of its
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) next turn.
TRAITS Grave Bolt (Skeletal Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus

equals your spell attack modifier, range 150 ft. Hit: 2d4

Festering Aura (Putrid Only). Constitution Saving Throw: + 3+ the spell’s level Necrotic damage.

DC equals your spell save DC, any creature (other than ; ;
you) that starts its turn within a 5-foot Emanation origi- Rotting Claw (Putrid Only). Melee Attack Roll: Bonus
nating from the spirit. Failure: The creature has the Poi- equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d6 +

 
 
 
 

gored coadifion until the startcflis next fin: fe eg Te se oe sere If mee has :
C e Poisoned condition, it has the Paralyzed condition 5

Incorporeal Passage (Ghostly Only). The spirit can until the end of its next turn. ° z

| move through other creatures and objects as if they 3

  

ra
ee aa

SUNBEAM .
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self >

Components: V, S, M (a magnifying glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You launch a sunbeam in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long
Line. Each creature in the Line makes a Constitu-
tion saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes
6d8 Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition
until the start of your next turn. On a successful
save, it takes half as much damage only.

Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action
to create a new Line of radiance.

For the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance
shines above you. It sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot
radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. This
light is sunlight.

SUNBURST
Level 8 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a piece of sunstone)
Duration: Instantaneous

Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot-radius Sphere
centered on a point you choose within range. Each
creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 Ra-
diant damage and has the Blinded condition for 1
minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much
damage only.

Acreature Blinded by this spell makes another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.

This spell dispels Darkness in its area that was
created by any spell.

SWIFT QUIVER
Level 5 Transmutation (Ranger)

Casting Time: Bonus Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S, M (a Quiver worth 1+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action until
it ends, you can make two attacks with a weapon
that fires Arrows or Bolts, such as a Longbow or

a Light Crossbow. he spell magically creates the
ammunition needed for each attack. Each Arrow or
Bolt created by the spell deals damage like a non-
magical piece of smmunition of its kind and disinte-
grates immediately after it hits or misses.

     

Level 7 Abjurati ration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth
1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: Until dispelled or triggered

You inscribe a harmful glyph either on a surface
(such as a section of floor or wall) or within an
object that can be closed (such as a book or chest).
The glyph can cover an area no larger than 10 feet
in diameter, If you choose an object, it must remain
in place; if it is moved more than 10 feet from where
you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell
ends without being triggered.

The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your
spell save DC to notice.

When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger
and choose which effect the symbol bears: Death,
Discord, Fear, Pain, Sleep, or Stunning. Each one is
explained below.

Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the glyph
when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a
surface, common triggers include touching or step-
ping on the glyph, removing another object cover-
ing it, or approaching within a certain distance of it.
For glyphs inscribed within an object, common trig-
gers include opening that object or seeing the glyph.

You can refine the trigger so that only creatures
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set
conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph,
such as those who say a certain password.

Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a
60-foot-radius Sphere with Dim Light for 10 min-
utes, after which time the spell ends. Each creature
in the Sphere when the glyph activates is targeted
by its effect, as is a creature that enters the Sphere
for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. A
creature is targeted only once per turn.

Death. Each target makes a Constitution saving
throw, taking 1Od10 Necrotic damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful save.

Discord. Each target makes a Wisdom saving
throw. On a failed save, a target argues with other
creatures for 1 minute. During this time, it is inca-
pable of meaningful communication and has Disad-
vantage on attack rolls and ability checks.

Fear. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Frightened condition for
1 minute. While Frightened, the target must move
at least 30 feet away from the glyph on each of its
turns, if able.

v. Ln CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

Pain. Each target must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition
for 1 minute.

Sleep. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom sav-
ing throw or have the Unconscious condition for 10
minutes. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if
someone takes an action to shake it awake.

Stunning. Each target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Stunned condition for 1
minute.

SYNAPTIC STATIC

Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You cause psychic energy to erupt at a point within
range. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius Sphere
centered on that point makes an Intelligence saving
throw, taking 8d6 Psychic damage on a failed save
or half as much damage on a successful one.

On a failed save, a target also has muddled
thoughts for 1 minute. During that time, it subtracts
1d6 from all its attack rolls and ability checks, as
well as any Constitution saving throws to maintain
Concentration. The target makes an Intelligence
saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending
the effect on itself on a success.

THE LEGENDARY WITCH TASHA USES HER SPELL, TASHAS

BUBBLING. CAULDRON, TO PRODUCE A MAGIC POTION.

TASHA’S BUBBLING CAULDRON
Level 6 Conjuration (Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 5 feet

Component: V, S, M (a gilded ladle worth 500+ Gp)
Duration: 10 minutes

You conjure a claw-footed cauldron filled with bub-
bling liquid. The cauldron appears in an unoccupied
space on the ground within 5 feet of you and lasts
for the duration. The cauldron can't be moved and
disappears when the spell ends, along with the bub-
bling liquid inside it.

The liquid in the cauldron duplicates the prop-
erties of aCommon or an Uncommon potion of
your choice (such as a Potion of Healing). As a Bonus
Action, you or an ally can reach into the cauldron
and withdraw one potion of that kind. The potion is
contained in a vial that disappears when the potion
is consumed. The cauldron can produce a number
of these potions equal to your spellcasting ability
modifier (minimum 1). When the last of these po-
tions is withdrawn from the cauldron, the cauldron
disappears, and the spell ends.

Potions obtained from the cauldron that aren't
consumed disappear when you cast this spell again.

 

 

 
   

TASHA'S Hipsous LAUGHTER
Level I Enchantment (Bard, Warlock, Wizard) ‘

Casting Time: Action

e: 30 feet
cpeponerit®: V, S, M (a tart and a feather)

puration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

One creature of your choice that you can see within
range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, it has the Prone and Incapacitated conditions
for the duration. During that time, it laughs uncon-
trollably if it’s capable of laughter, and it can’t end
the Prone condition on itself.

At the end of each of its turns and each time it
takes damage, it makes another Wisdom saving
throw. The target has Advantage on the save if the
save is triggered by damage. On a successful save,
the spell ends.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target one
additional creature for each spell slot level about 1.

TELEKINESIS
Level 5 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You gain the ability to move or manipulate crea-
tures or objects by thought. When you cast the spell
and as a Magic action on your later turns before the
spell ends, you can exert your will on one creature
or object that you can see within range, causing the
appropriate effect below. You can affect the same
target round after round pr. chooss.a new one at any
time Af you, smsitsh targets. the, prior sapget is no
longer affected by the spell.

Creature. You can try to move a Huge or smaller
creature. The target must succeed on a Strength
saving throw, or you move it up to 30 feet in any
direction within the spell’s range. Until the end of
your next turn, the creature has the Restrained con-
dition, and if you lift it into the air, it is suspended
there. It falls at the end of your next turn unless you
use this option on it again and it fails the save.

Object. You can try to move a Huge or smaller
object. If the object isn't being worn or carried, you
automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction
within the spell's range.

If the object is worn or carried by a creature, that
creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw,
or you pull the object away and move it up to 30
feet in any direction within the spell’s range.

You can exert fine control on objects with your
telekinetic grip, s“ch as manipulating a simple tool,

Ra

‘froma vial.

me: Action

ange: Unlimited

Components ponents: V, S, M (a pair of linked silver rings
Duration: 24 hours mi

You create a telepathic link between yourself and a
willing creature with which you are familiar. The
Creature can be anywhere on the same plane of ex-
istence as you. The spell ends if you or the target are
no longer on the same plane.

Until the spell ends, you and the target can in-
stantly share words, images, sounds, and other
Sensory messages with each other through the link,
and the target recognizes you as the creature it is
communicating with. The spell enables a creature
to understand the meaning of your words and any
sensory messages you send to it.

TELEPORT

Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 10 feet

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

This spell instantly transports you and up to eight
willing creatures that you can see within range, ora
single object that you can see within range, to a des-
tination you select. If you target an object, it must
be Large or smaller, and it can't be held or carried
by an unwilling creature.

The destination you choose must be known to
you, and it must be on the same plane of existence
as you. Your familiarity with the destination deter-
mines whether you arrive there successfully. The
DM rolls 1d100 and consults the Teleportation Out-
come table and the explanations after it.

TELEPORTATION OUTCOME

Similar Off On

Familiarity Mishap Area Target Target
Permanent circle — _ — 01-00
Linked object — — — 01-00
Very familiar 01-05 06-13 14-24 25-00
Seen casually 01-33 34-43 44-53 54-00
Viewed onceor 01-43 44-53 54-73 74-00
described

False destination 01-50 51-00 — —

ra container, stowing or retrieving
open container, or pouring the con-

=a

oe Cuaprenaiepects. / nar

Familiarity. Here are the meanings of the terms in
the table's Familiarity column:

- “Permanent circle” means a permanent teleporta-
tion circle whose sigil sequence you know.
“Linked object” means you possess an object
taken from the desired destination within the last
six months, such as a book from a wizard’'s library.
- “Very familiar” is a place you have visited often,

a place you have carefully studied, or a place you

can see when you cast the spell.

+ “Seen casually” is a place you have seen more than

once but with which you aren't very familiar.

“Viewed once or described” is a place you have

seen once, possibly using magic, or a place you

know through someone else’s description, perhaps
from a map.

- “False destination” is a place that doesn't exist.
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy's sanctum but
instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting
to teleport to a location that no longer exists.

.

Mishap. The spell’s unpredictable magic results in
a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the
target object) takes 3d10 Force damage, and the DM
rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (multi-
ple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time).

Similar Area. You and your group (or the target
object) appear in a different area that's visually or
thematically similar to the target area. You appear
in the closest similar place. If you are heading for
your home laboratory, for example, you might ap-
pear in another person's laboratory in the same city.

Off Target. You and your group (or the target ob-
ject) appear 2d12 miles away from the destination
in a random direction. Roll 148 for the direction: 1,
east; 2, southeast; 3, south; 4, southwest; 5, west; 6,
northwest; 7, north; or 8, northeast.

On Target. You and your group (or the target ob-
ject) appear where you intended.

TELEPORTATION CIRCLE
Level 5 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 10 feet

Components: V, M (rare inks worth 50+ GP, which the
spell consumes)

Duration: 1 round

As you cast the spell, you draw a 5-foot-radius circle
on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your
location to a permanent teleportation circle of your
choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is

on the same plane of existence as you. A shimmer-
ing portal opens within the circle you drew and
remains open until the end of your next turn. Any
creature that enters the portal instantly appears
within 5 feet of the destination circle or in the near-
est unoccupied space if that space is occupied.

Many major temples, guildhalls, and other im-
portant places have permanent teleportation cir-
cles. Each circle includes a unique sigil sequence—a
string of runes arranged in a particular pattern,

When you first gain the ability to cast this spell,
you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations
on the Material Plane, determined by the DM. You
might learn additional sigil sequences during your
adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to
memory after studying it for 1 minute.

You can create a permanent teleportation circle
by casting this spell in the same location every day
for 365 days.

TENSER’S FLOATING Disk
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury)
Duration: 1 hour

This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of
force, 3 feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that floats
3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space
of your choice that you can see within range. The
disk remains for the duration and can hold up to
500 pounds. If more weight is placed on it, the spell
ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground.

The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet
of it. If you move more than 20 feet away from it,
the disk follows you so that it remains within 20
feet of you. It can move across uneven terrain, up
or down stairs, slopes and the like, but it can’t cross
an elevation change of 10 feet or more. For exam-
ple, the disk can't move across a 10-foot-deep pit,
nor could it leave such a pit if it was created at the
bottom.

If you move more than 100 feet from the disk
(typically because it can’t move around an obstacle
to follow you), the spell ends.

A Reo WIZARD OF THAY ORDERS SKELETAL SERVANTS TO
HEAP RICHES ON THE DISK OF TENSERS FLOATING Disk

THAUMATURGY
Transmutation Cantrip (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V

Duration: Up to 1 minute

You manifest a minor wonder within range. You
create one of the effects below within range. If you
cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to
three of its I-minute effects active at a time.

Altered Eyes. You alter the appearance of your
eyes for 1 minute.

Booming Voice. Your voice booms up to three
times as loud as normal for 1 minute. For the dura-
tion, you have Advantage on Charisma (Intimida-
tion) checks.

Fire Play. You cause flames to flicker, brighten,
dim, or change color for 1 minute.

Invisible Hand. You instantaneously cause an un-
locked door or window to fly open or slam shut.

Phantom Sound. You create an instantaneous
sound that originates from a point of your choice
within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry
of araven, or ominous whispers.

Tremors. You cause harmless tremors in the
ground for 1 minute.

 

THORN WHIP ,
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (the stem of a thorny plant)
Duration: Instantaneous

You create a vine-like whip covered in thorns that
lashes out at your command toward a creature in
range. Make a melee spell attack against the target.
On a hit, the target takes 1d6 Piercing damage, and
if it is Large or smaller, you can pull it up to 10 feet
closer to you.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

SS

THUNDERCLAP
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous

Each creature in a 5-foot Emanation originating
from you must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or take 1d6 Thunder damage. The spell's
thunderous sound can be heard up to 100 feet away.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

CHAPTER7|SPELLS /{ 999

794

THUNDEROUS SMITE

Level 1 Evocation (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: Instantaneous

Your strike rings with thunder that is audible
within 300 feet of you, and the target takes an ex-
tra 2d6 Thunder damage from the attack. Addition-
ally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed on a
Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away
from you and have the Prone condition.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

THUNDERWAVE

Level I Evocation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Instantaneous

You unleash a wave of thunderous energy. Each
creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from you
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save,
a creature takes 2d8 Thunder damage and is pushed
10 feet away from you. On a successful save, a crea-
ture takes half as much damage only.

In addition, unsecured objects that are entirely
within the Cube are pushed 10 feet away from you,
and a thunderous boom is audible within 300 feet.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1.

TIME STopP

Level 9 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but
yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while
you take 1d4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you
can use actions and move as normal.

This spell ends if one of the actions you use during
this period, or any effects that you create during it,
affects a creature other than you or an object be-
ing worn or carried by someone other than you. In
addition, the spell ends if you move to a place more
than 1,000 feet from the location where you cast it.

GHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

TOLL THE DEAD
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous

You point at one creature you can see within range,
and the single chime of a dolorous bell is audible
within 10 feet of the target. The target must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d8 Necrotic
damage. If the target is missing any of its Hit Points,
it instead takes 1d12 Necrotic damage.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by one
die when you reach levels 5 (2d8 or 2d12), 11 (3d8 or
3d12), and 17 (4d8 or 4d12).

TONGUES
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, M (a miniature ziggurat)
Duration: 1 hour

This spell grants the creature you touch the ability
to understand any spoken or signed language that

it hears or sees. Moreover, when the target commu-
nicates by speaking or signing, any creature that
knows at least one language can understand it if
that creature can hear the speech or see the signing.

TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute

This spell creates a magical link between a Large

or larger inanimate plant within range and another
plant, at any distance, on the same plane of exis-
tence. You must have seen or touched the destina-
tion plant at least once before. "0 the duration, any
creature can step into the targ«* plant and exit from
the destination plant by usiss | ect of movement.

 

TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS ANDO TREE STRIDE TURN
THREES INTO A TRANSPORATION NETWORK.

em

TREE STRIDE
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from
inside it to inside another tree of the same kind
within 500 feet. Both trees must be living and at
least the same size as you. You must use 5 feet of
movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the
location of all other trees of the same kind within
500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the
tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step
out of the tree you're in. You appear in a spot of
your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree,
using another 5 feet of movement. If you have no
movement left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree
you entered.

You can use this transportation ability only once
on each of your turns. You must end each turn out-
side a tree.

TRUE POLYMORPH
Level 9 Transmutation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury, a dollop of
gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you
can see within range. The creature shape-shifts into
a different creature or a nonmagical object, or the
objec! shape-shifts into a creature (the object must
be neither worn nor carried). The transformation
lasts for the duration or until the target dies or is

destroyed, but if you maintain Concentration on — ;

   

this spell for the full duration, the spell lasts until
dispelled.

An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom sav-
ing throw, and if it succeeds, it isn't affected by this
spell.

Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature into
another kind of creature, the new form can be any
kind you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal
to or less than the target's Challenge Rating or level.
The target's game statistics are replaced by the stat
block of the new form, but it retains its Hit Points,
Hit Point Dice, alignment, and personality.

The target gains a number of Temporary Hit
Points equal to the Hit Points of the new form. The
spell ends early on the target if it has no Temporary
Hit Points left.

The target is limited in the actions it can perform
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak
or cast spells.

The target's gear melds into the new form. The
creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of
that equipment.

Object into Creature. You can turn an object into
any kind of creature, as long as the creature's size
is no larger than the object's size and the creature
has a Challenge Rating of 9 or lower. The creature
is Friendly to you and your allies. In combat, it takes
its turns immediately after yours, and it obeys your
commands,

If the spell lasts more than an hour, you no longer
control the creature. It might remain Friendly to
you, depending on how you have treated it.

Creature into Object. If you turn a creature into an
object, it transforms along with whatever it is wear-
ing and carrying into that form, as long as the ob-
ject's size is no larger than the creature's size. The
creature's statistics become those of the object, and
the creature has no memory of time spent in this
form after the spell ends and it returns to normal.

CHAPTER7| SPELLS / 935%

TRUE RESURRECTION

Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)

Casting Time: 1 hour

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth 25,000+ GP,
which the spell consumes)

Duration: Instantaneous

You touch a creature that has been dead for no
longer than 200 years and that died for any reason
except old age. The creature is revived with all its
Hit Points.

This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any
poison, cures all magical contagions, and lifts any
curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell
replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs.

If the creature was Undead, it is restored to its
non-Undead form.

The spell can provide a new body if the original
no longer exists, in which case you must speak the
creature's name. The creature then appears in an
unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.

TRUE SEEING

Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock,

Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (mushroom powder worth 25+
GP, which the spell consumes)

Duration: 1 hour

For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
Truesight with a range of 120 feet.

— a ee

TRUE STRIKE
Divination Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S,M (a weapon with which you have

 
 
   
  
 
   
  
  

Instantaneous

ta We inte ce casting.
attack uses your spellcasting ability for the at-
Rand da :

; If the attack deals damage, it can be Ra-
ge or e weapon's normal damage type

TSUNAMI
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 1 mile

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 6 rounds

A wall of water springs into existence at a point you
choose within range. You can make the wall up to
300 feet long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The
wall lasts for the duration.

When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 6d10 Blud-
geoning damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.

At the start of each of your turns after the wall
appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it,
moves 5O feet away from you. Any Huge or smaller
creature inside the wall or whose space the wall
enters when it moves must succeed on a Strength

saving throw or take 5d10 Bludgeoning damage. A
creature can take this damage only once per round.
At the end of the turn, the wall’s height is reduced
by 50 feet, and the damage the wall deals on later
rounds is reduced by 1d10. When the wall reaches 0
feet in height, the spell ends.

A creature caught in the wall can move by swim-
ming. Because of the wave's force, though, the crea-
ture must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) check
against your spell save DC to move at all. If it fails
the check, it can’t move. A creature that moves out
of the wall falls to the ground.

UNSEEN SERVANT
Level 1 Conjuration (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a bit of string and of wood)
Duration: 1 hour

This spell creates an Invisible, mindless, shapeless,
Medium force that performs simple tasks at your
command until the spell ends. The servant springs
into existence in an unoccupied space on the
ground within range. It has AC 10, 1 Hit Point, and a
Strength of 2, and it can’t attack. If it drops to O Hit
Points, the spell ends.

Once on each of your turns as a Bonus Action,
you can mentally command the servant to move up
to 15 feet and interact with an object. The servant
Enpecrorn simple tasks that a human could do,

things, cleaning, mending, fo

  

-
a

A GNOME Baro casts Vicious Wkelel. 1 2-a Anke) \
- co
SKEWER: A KOBOLD WITH MAGICAL INSULTS.

 

drinks. Once you give the command, the servant
performs the task to the best of its ability until
it completes the task, then waits for your next
command.

If you command the servant to perform a task
that would move it more than 60 feet away from
you, the spell ends.

VAMPIRIC TOUCH
Level 3 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can si-
phon life force from others to heal your wounds.
Make a melee spell attack against one creature
within reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 Necrotic
damage, and you regain Hit Points equal to half the
amount of Necrotic damage dealt.

Until the spell ends, you can make the attack
again on each of your turns as a Magic action, tar-
geting the same creature or a different one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3.

 

VICIOUS MOCKERY
Enchantment Cantrip (Bard)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle
enchantments at one creature you can see or hear
within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or take 1d6 Psychic damage and have
Disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before
the end of its next turn.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

VITRIOLIC SPHERE

Level 4 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 150 feet

Components: V, S, M (a drop of bile)
Duration: Instantaneous

You point at a location within range, and a glow-
ing, 1-foot-diameter ball of acid streaks there and

CHAPTER7|SPELLS ({ 337

he

 

238

‘explodes in a 20-foot-radius

AN TIEFLING SORCERER UNLEASHES

ViITRIOLIC SPHERE ON NOTHICS.
ff om
Sphere. Each creature
in that area makes a Dexterity saving throw. Ona
failed save, a creature takes 10d4 Acid damage and
another 5d4 Acid damage at the end of its next turn.
On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial
damage only.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage

increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 4.

a "

 

WALL OF FIRE
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a piece of charcoal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within
range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20
feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20
feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The
wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.

When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d8 Fire
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on
a successful one.

One side of the wall, selected by you when you
cast this spell, deals 5d8 Fire damage to each crea-
ture that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or
inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage
when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

or ends its turn there. The other side of the wall

 

    

deals no damage.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4.

WALL OF FORCE
Level 5 Evocation (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

An Invisible wall of force springs into existence at
a point you choose within range. The wall appears
in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or
vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating
or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a
hemispherical dome or a globe with a radius of up
to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up
of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must
be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the
wall is 1/4 inch thick and lasts for the duration. If
the wall cuts through a creature's space when it ap-
pears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall
(you choose which side).

Nothing can physically pass through the wall. It
is immune to all damage and can't be dispelled by
Dispel Magic. A Disintegrate spcii destroys the wall
instantly, however. The wall «!so extends into the
Ethereal Plane and blocks ethereal travel through
the wall.

 

 
   
 

WALL OF ICE

Level 6 Evocation (Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a piece of quartz)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within
range. You can form it into a hemispherical dome
or a globe with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can
shape a flat surface made up of ten 10-foot-square
panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another
panel. In any form, the wall is 1 foot thick and lasts
for the duration.

If the wall cuts through a creature's space when
it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the
wall (you choose which side) and makes a Dexterity
saving throw, taking 10d6 Cold damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.

The wall is an object that can be damaged and
thus breached. It has AC 12 and 30 Hit Points per
10-foot section, and it has Immunity to Cold, Poi-
son, and Psychic damage and Vulnerability to Fire
damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to 0 Hit
Points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid
air in the space the wall occupied.

A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air
for the first time on a turn makes a Constitution
saving throw, taking 5d6 Cold damage on a failed
save or half as much damage on a successful one.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage the
wall deals when it appears increases by 2d6 and the
damage from passing through the sheet of frigid air
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 6.

WALL OF STONE
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a cube of granite)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

A nonmagical wall of solid stone springs into exis-
tence at a point you choose within range. The wall
is 6 inches thick and is composed of ten 10-foot-by-
10-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with
another panel. Alternatively, you can create 10-foot-
by-20-foot panels that are only 3 inches thick.

If the wall cuts through a creature's space when
it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the
wall (you choose which side). If a creature would
be surrounded on all sides by the wall (or the wall
and another solid surface), that creature can make

a it y saving throw. On a success, it can use
its eaction to move up to its Speed so that it is no
longer enclosed by the wall.

The wall can have any shape you desire, though it
can't occupy the same space as a creature or object.
The wall doesn’t need to be vertical or rest on a firm
foundation. It must, however, merge with and be
solidly supported by existing stone. Thus, you can
use this spell to bridge a chasm or create a ramp.

If you create a span greater than 20 feet in length,
you must halve the size of each panel to create sup-
ports. You can crudely shape the wall to create bat-
tlements and the like.

The wall is an object made of stone that can be
damaged and thus breached. Each panel has AC 15
and 30 Hit Points per inch of thickness, and it has
Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage. Reducing
a panel to O Hit Points destroys it and might cause
connected panels to collapse at the DM's discretion.

If you maintain your Concentration on this spell
for its full duration, the wall becomes permanent
and can't be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall disap-
pears when the spell ends.

WALL OF THORNS
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a handful of thorns)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes

You create a wall of tangled brush bristling with
needle-sharp thorns. The wall appears within range
on a solid surface and lasts for the duration. You
choose to make the wall up to 60 feet long, 10 feet
high, and 5 feet thick or a circle that has a 20-foot
diameter and is up to 20 feet high and 5 feet thick.
The wall blocks line of sight.

When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 7d8 Pierc-
ing damage on a failed save or half as much damage
on a successful one.

A creature can move through the wall, albeit
slowly and painfully. For every 1 foot a creature
moves through the wall, it must spend 4 feet of
movement. Furthermore, the first time a creature |
enters a space in the wall on a turn or ends its turn”
there, the creature makes a Dexterity saving throw,
taking 7d8 Slashing damage on a failed save or half
as much damage on a successful one. A creature
makes this save only once per turn. ;

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Both ty;
age increase by 1d8 for each spell slot level

  

     
    
  
 

WARDING BOND
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (a pair of platinum rings worth
50+ GP each, which you and the target must wear
for the duration)

Duration: 1] hour

You touch another creature that is willing and
create a mystic connection between you and the
target until the spell ends. While the target is
within 60 feet of you, it gains a +1 bonus to AC and
saving throws, and it has Resistance to all damage.
Also, each time it takes damage, you take the same
amount of damage.

The spell ends if you drop to O Hit Points or if you
and the target become separated by more than 60
feet. It also ends if the spell is cast again on either of
the connected creatures.

SPELLS LIKE WATER BREATHING AND WATER
WAWK ASSIST VISITS TO AQUATIC REALMS.

WATER BREATHING
Level 3 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,
Wizard)

Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a short reed) WEB
Duration: 24 hours

 

Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
‘ a Casting Time: Action

This spell grants up to ten willing creatures of your Range: 60 feet

choice within range the ability to breathe under-
water until the spell ends. Affected creatures also
retain their normal mode of respiration.

Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour

You conjure a mass of sticky webbing at a point

within range. The webs fill a 20-foot Cube there for
WATER WALK the duration. The webs are Difficult Terrain, and the
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer) area within them is Lightly Obscured.

If the webs aren't anchored between two solid
masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a
floor, wall, or ceiling, the web collapses on itself, and
the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs
layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.

Casting Time: Action or Ritual

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a piece of cork)
Duration: 1 hour

This spell grants the ability to move across any liq- The first time a creature enters the webs on a turn
uid surface—such as water, acid, mud, snow, quick- or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a Dexter-
sand, or lava—as if it were harmless solid ground ity saving throw or have the Restrained condition
(creatures crossing molten lava can still take dam- while in the webs or until it breaks free.
age from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures of A creature Restrained by the webs can take an
your choice within range gain this ability for the action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against
duration. your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer

An affected target must take a Bonus Action to Restrained.
pass from the liquid’s surface into the liquid itself The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot Cube of webs
and vice versa, but if the target falls into the liquid, exposed to fire burns away in | round, dealing 2d4 ;
the target passes through the surface into the liquid Fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in :
below. the fire. i

240 . CHAPTER7 | SPELLS 7

WEIRD

Level 9 Illusion (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S

Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You try to create illusory terrors in others’ minds.
Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot-radius
Sphere centered on a point within range makes a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target
takes 10d10 Psychic damage and has the Frightened
condition for the duration. On a successful save, a
target takes half as much damage only.

A Frightened target makes a Wisdom saving
throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed
save, it takes 5d10 Psychic damage. On a successful
save, the spell ends on that target.

WIND WALK
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid)

Casting Time: 1 minute

Range: 30 feet

Components: V, S, M (a candle)
Duration: 8 hours

You and up to ten willing creatures of your choice
within range assume gaseous forms for the du-
ration, appearing as wisps of cloud. While in this
cloud form, a target has a Fly Speed of 300 feet and
can hover; it has Immunity to the Prone condition;
and it has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and
Slashing damage. The only actions a target can take
in this form are the Dash action or a Magic action to
begin reverting to its normal form. Reverting takes
1 minute, during which the target has the Stunned
condition. Until the spell ends, the target can revert
to cloud form, which also requires a Magic action
followed by a 1-minute transformation.

If a target is in cloud form and flying when the ef-
fect ends, the target descends 60 feet per round for
1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it can't
land after 1 minute, it falls the remaining distance.

WIND WALL
Level 3 Evocation (Druid, Ranger)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 120 feet

Components: V, S, M (a fan and a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a
point you choose within range. You can make the
wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick.

You can shape the wall in any way you choose so
long as it makes one continuous path along the
ground. The wall lasts for the duration.

When the wall appears, each creature in its area
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 4d8 Blud-
geoning damage on a failed save or half as much
damage on a successful one.

The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other
gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or
objects can't pass through the wall. Loose, light-
weight materials brought into the wall fly upward.
Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles
launched at targets behind the wall are deflected
upward and miss automatically. Boulders hurled by
Giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are
unaffected. Creatures in gaseous form can't pass
through it.

WISH

Level 9 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V

Duration: Instantaneous

Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal can cast. By sim-
ply speaking aloud, you can alter reality itself.

The basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other
spell of level 8 or lower. If you use it this way, you
don't need to meet any requirements to cast that
spell, including costly components. The spell simply
takes effect.

Alternatively, you can create one of the following
effects of your choice:

Object Creation. You create one object of up to
25,000 GP in value that isn't a magic item. The
object can be no more than 300 feet in any di-
mension, and it appears in an unoccupied space
that you can see on the ground.

Instant Health. You allow yourself and up to
twenty creatures that you can see to regain all Hit
Points, and you end all effects on them listed in
the Greater Restoration spell.

Resistance. You grant up to ten creatures that you
can see Resistance to one damage type that you
choose. This Resistance is permanent.

Spell Immunity. You grant up to ten creatures you
can see immunity to a single spell or other magi-
cal effect for 8 hours.

Sudden Learning. You replace one of your feats
with another feat for which you are eligible. You
lose all the benefits of the old feat and gain the
benefits of the new one. You can't replace a feat
that is a prerequisite for any of your other feats or
features.

CHAPTER7|SPELLS #  @47

242

A HALFLING WARLOCK ZAPS A
LOMBIE WITH THE GRASPING
LIGHTNING OF WiTcH Bott.

Roll Redo. You undo a single recent event by forc-
ing a reroll of any die roll made within the last
round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes
itself to accommodate the new result. For exam-
ple, a Wish spell could undo an ally’s failed saving
throw or a foe's Critical Hit. You can force the re-
roll to be made with Advantage or Disadvantage,
and you choose whether to use the reroll or the
original roll.

Reshape Reality. You may wish for something not
included in any of the other effects. To do so, state
your wish to the DM as precisely as possible. The
DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in
such an instance; the greater the wish, the greater
the likelihood that something goes wrong. This
spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might
be achieved only in part, or you might suffer an
unforeseen consequence as a result of how you
worded the wish. For example, wishing that a
villain were dead might propel you forward in
time to a period when that villain is no longer
alive, effectively removing you from the game.
Similarly, wishing for a Legendary magic item or
an Artifact might instantly transport you to the

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS

 

presence of the item’s current owner. If your wish
is granted and its effects have consequences for a
whole community, region, or world, you are likely
to attract powerful foes. If your wish would affect
a god, the god's divine servants might instantly in-
tervene to prevent it or to encourage you to craft
the wish in a particular way. If your wish would
undo the multiverse itself, threaten the City of
Sigil, or affect the Lady of Pain in any way, you
see an image of her in your mind for a moment;
she shakes her head, and your wish fails.

The stress of casting Wish to produce any effect
other than duplicating another spell weakens you.
After enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell
until you finish a Long Rest, you take 1d10 Necrotic
damage per level of that spell. This damage can't be
reduced or prevented in any way. In addition, your
Strength score becomes 3 for 2d4 days. For each of
those days that you spend resting and doing nothing
more than light activity, your remaining recovery
time decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 per-
cent chance that you are unable to cast Wish ever
again if you suffer this stress.

WITCH BOLT
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)

Casting Time: Action

Range: 60 feet

Components: V, S, M (a twig struck by lightning)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

A beam of crackling energy lances toward a crea-
ture within range, forming a sustained arc of light-
ning between you and the target. Make a ranged
spell attack against it. On a hit, the target takes
2d12 Lightning damage.

On each of your subsequent turns, you can take a
Bonus Action to deal 1d12 Lightning damage to the
target automatically, even if the first attack missed.

The spell ends if the target is ever outside the
spell's range or if it has Total Cover from you.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial damage
increases by Id12 for each spell slot level above 1.

WORD OF RADIANCE
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Components: V, M (a sunburst token)
Duration: Instantaneous

Burning radiance erupts from you in a 5-foot Em-
anation. Each creature of your choice that you can
see in it must succeed on a Constitution saving
throw or take 1d6 Radiant damage.

Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6

when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 (4d6).

WoRD OF RECALL
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous

You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet
of you instantly teleport to a previously designated
sanctuary. You and any creatures that teleport with
you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the
spot you designated when you prepared your sanc-
tuary (see below). If you cast this spell without first
preparing a sanctuary, the spell has no effect.

You ninust designate a location, such as a temple, as
a sancliiary by casting this spell there.

Co

WRATHFUL SMITE
Level 1 Necromancy (Paladin)

Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike

Range: Self

Component: V

Duration: 1 minute

The target takes an extra 1d6 Necrotic damage
from the attack, and it must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or have the Frightened condition until
the spell ends. At the end of each of its turns, the

Frightened target repeats the save, ending the spell
on itself on a success.

Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.

YOLANDE’S REGAL PRESENCE
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action

Range: Self

Component: V, S, M (a miniature tiara)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute

You surround yourself with unearthly majesty in a
10-foot Emanation. Whenever the Emanation en-
ters the space of a creature you can see and when-
ever a creature you can see enters the Emanation or
ends its turn there, you can force that creature to
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the
target takes 4d6 Psychic damage and has the Prone
condition, and you can push it up to 10 feet away.
On a successful save, the target takes half as much
damage only. A creature makes this save only once
per turn.

ZONE OF TRUTH
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)

Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes

You create a magical zone that guards against de-
ception in a 15-foot-radius Sphere centered ona
point within range. Until the spell ends, a creature
that enters the spell's area for the first time ona
turn or starts its turn there makes a Charisma sav-
ing throw. On a failed save, a creature can't speak a
deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether
a creature succeeds or fails on this save.

An affected creature is aware of the spell and
can avoid answering questions to which it would
normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be
evasive yet must be truthful.

CHAPTER 7 | SPELLS 343